in writing. i voted for it, as did the whole socialist and democratic political group. the european union fishes all over the world. this agreement is a testament to the partnership between the eu and santomé and príncipe.
in writing. the european union will finally solve its long-standing problem. the waters belong to the eu. i voted yes. there will be no obstacles to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. i voted yes. this decision is purely protocol, as it relates to the latest enlargement of the european union with the accession of bulgaria and romania, in order to inscribe the names of those countries in the text of the agreement and to extend the operation of the agreement to those countries.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on a proposal allowing eu member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants on their territory. this will be possible even if they have been authorised at eu level by the european food safety authority (efsa). this compromise text provides a clear legal basis for the prohibition of the cultivation of gmos on national territory, thus giving the member states the 'last word' and ensuring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. i think it's important to give countries choices on this very politically sensitive and socially polarizing issue. the new rules will allow member states to ban gmo crops for a variety of reasons, such as environmental, urban, social and economic, as well as to prevent accidental contamination of gmos in other products and for agricultural policy purposes. member states will have to ensure that gmos do not contaminate other products, with particular attention to preventing cross-border contamination.
in writing. i supported legislation that would allow eu member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants on their territory, even if the eu has authorised it. the proposal, which was informally agreed by the european parliament and the eu council last december, was submitted in 2010, but it took four years for the member states to reach a common position and it was only today that it was actually reached.
in writing. - i have always been in favour of latvia and the european union as a whole being free of gmos. we must not allow our land and soil to be polluted and become dependent on biotechnology corporations. although advocates of gmos claim that the harmfulness of these foods has not been proven, there is also a lack of evidence of their safety. the eu legislation in force so far provides that if a company wishes to market gmo seeds in a particular country, the european commission (ec) is entitled to grant an authorisation based on the opinion of the european food safety authority. when the ec authorises a gmo species, it deprives countries of the right to decide whether they wish to allow the gmo to enter their territory. of course, i would like the member states to be able to agree collectively on a gmo-free eu. unfortunately, there is no consensus among eu member states on whether the eu should allow the cultivation of gmos, so the compromise reached will ensure that each country has the right to decide for itself whether to allow the cultivation of gmos. we will thus also have the opportunity to abandon gmos in latvia and continue to grow natural food without risking the penalties of the european court of justice. while i am pleased that a compromise has been reached, which gives me more confidence that we will be able to keep our planet free of gmos, there are still many questions to be answered, including those about buffer zones between countries and the possible transfer of genes between plants.
in writing. the compromise reached by the european parliament and the council on a new directive is certainly welcome, as it will allow eu member states to legally prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants on their territories, even if authorised by the european union. the debate on this issue has always been a difficult one; it is now four years since the commission put forward its proposal. in the past, the european commission has allowed the cultivation of certain genetically modified plants even if member states objected. recall the case of a genetically modified maize variety approved by the european commission despite opposition from 19 member states. the new directive will allow member states to decide for themselves whether they want to restrict or allow the cultivation of genetically modified crops on their territory. it will now be up to each member state to decide according to the views of its citizens, and governments will have to listen to their citizens seriously. moreover, it is very important that such a decision by a member state to ban gmos will be fully legal and in line with eu rules, so that the big gmo producers will not be able to challenge this decision in court as was possible until now.
for the ecr group mr president, madam prime minister, mr president of the commission! i'm really excited to speak in latvian on such an important issue today. twenty-five years ago, a generation ago, many of us could not have imagined that such an event could take place today here in strasbourg. i therefore wish the latvian presidency success - and i am sure it will - both in the areas that have been long in the pipeline and in the response to events such as those in paris. i think the presidency will be very successful. and some of the things that i think are very important, i want to go a little bit deeper today. mr president, in this house we all care about growth and prosperity and the development of our economies. when we ask ourselves what could be the strongest instrument in, say, making transparent progress on ttip which is important not only from a geopolitical point of view and for the development of western values, but also for economic growth on both sides of the atlantic, and of course in europe it will, i think, create more sustainable growth in europe, if it is a successful process, than the strategic investment plan perhaps necessary but a bit ad hoc which was approved yesterday by the commission. i would like to point out that the presidency has to work on this plan for six months to turn it into a reality. i don't want to go into too many details, but there are still a lot of questions about this investment plan. one of my main concerns is that profitability-driven investment can create more disparities in the european union than there are now and may perhaps cause a younger generation of europeans to move to the most developed member states in the future. we have to be very careful about such outcomes. the second issue, of course, is russia and ukraine. there have been some comments from responsible persons saying that we cannot impose more and more sanctions on russia and that the only way to stop the madness is via negotiations. but when we talk about how we can help in dealing with negotiations in a situation of madness, the only way is to tell the mad ones what they want to hear and make promises that work on it, not in our favor. we can ask the european citizens if this is what they expect from our behaviour as politicians in europe or we can ask the ukrainians if they are happy with european partners who just want to implement the minsk agreement and then quickly remove all the sanctions. but what about the rule of law, and behaviour which is not compatible with the 21st century; what about compliance with international treaties, and what about crimea in that case? i believe there is an alternative option. an ʽengaged europeʼ, which is also a priority of the latvian presidency, means that we will show solidarity with the ukrainian nation and government. a stable, democratic and free ukraine is a very good example for other eastern partnership countries to show that european values are real values. eastern partnership countries can choose this way the western way rather than its opposite, the eurasian union way, and it is i think very important that we understand this. let us be under no illusions: the weaker the eu's actions, the stronger the eurasian union will become. coming back to values, the millions who marched in paris in solidarity against terror last weekend, on sunday, showed that european values are values for citizens and that we have to hold to them very proudly and very strongly in the case of the situation in ukraine too and in other eastern partnership member countries, and in our relationship with russia.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the expansion of relations with central asia is one of the specific priorities of the latvian presidency. now more than ever, the countries of central asia need our help and support to help them counterbalance the growing pressure from russia. the strengthening of direct cooperation links with these countries will contribute to economic growth and job creation not only in the european union but also in the region concerned. our assistance is essential to help countries in the region overcome the challenges of terrorism, border security and drug trafficking. the transport, energy and proactive action of the european union in seeking new directions for cooperation are also crucial. already, the region has attracted the attention of world powers. china is successfully developing trade links and becoming the most strategically important market for natural resources. with the withdrawal of nato forces from central asia, russia has increased its military presence in the region. america's interest in the region for its stability and security is very great. to promote and extend cooperation with this region of such importance to europe, we must therefore be able to offer an individual cooperation mechanism to each of our partners. we must be able to use every opportunity to strengthen and enhance the good name and reputation of the european union in the region. we need to build trust. but we know that trust is based on respect -- respect for traditions and customs, respect for culture and religion. and these challenges to the latvian presidency are beyond strength! thank you for your attention.
mr president, mr juncker, president of the commission, mrs straujuma, prime minister, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we all have to ask ourselves, "why are we here?" and the answer, of course, is that we serve our citizens. and what do our citizens say is needed? of course, they're jobs, and they're security. the question is how can we achieve these goals? mrs straujuma has already mentioned a lot about the objectives of the latvian presidency. i want to emphasize one more point. competitiveness. of course, europe needs to increase its competitiveness. but how can we do that? the simple key is to sort out the obstacles. we know that in the digital market, including the markets for goods and services, we have fragmentation, we have all kinds of constraints. removing these barriers will increase europe's competitiveness. secondly, we need to boost investment. of course, we must do so. how can we do that? i think the juncker commission's plan for how to unlock private capital so that it can flow back into our economy is the best proposal i have heard in a long time. the task of the latvian presidency is to translate this plan from an idea into reality, in order to free up private capital for investment. it's going to create jobs for us. what about security? there are two aspects of security that are very important to us. one of the things that the events in paris remind us very well is internal security, security against terrorism. and here it is important for member states to come together, share information and work together to prevent these potential threats to our citizens. but there's also external security, where perhaps the biggest factor right now is energy security. this european energy union must be established. by bringing our forces together, we will be much safer, and i think the latvian presidency is very well positioned to keep the european union together so that we can achieve these goals that we all need. thank you for your attention.
mr president, mr juncker, madam prime minister, i am very honoured that my country, latvia, has become the presidency of the council of the european union. it places a great responsibility on my country, its officials and politicians, and at the same time it brings great advantages, and it gives latvia the opportunity to present itself as a country and to present its vision for the development of the european union. there are two roles that the presidency can play in this process. one of them is to become a simple host, who receives and entertains guests, organizes events. well, it's not a bad role, but i think the presidency still has to have its own vision for the future. it must take the initiative, it must make the effort, to make this vision a reality. there are many issues to which latvia could pay more attention. i believe that tackling unemployment, social exclusion and inequality could be the focus of this presidency. currently, 24.6 million people in the european union are unemployed. 25% of europe's population is at risk of poverty. and in my country, for example, 35 percent of the population lives in poverty. it would therefore be logical that latvia, through its role as presidency state, could take on an additional driving role in addressing this common problem. and a few words about the europe 2020 strategy. an ambitious target was set to reduce by 20 million the number of people living in poverty over a decade. almost half the time has passed since the strategy's objectives were set, but the results are still not optimistic. there could be two problems with implementing this strategy: either the plans are too ambitious or unrealistic, or the implementation is ineffective. i urge you to take advantage of this opportunity. thank you very much.
chairman! lady of the storm! you guys! as a citizen of latvia, i very much want our country's presidency to be successful. as a representative of the group of the european free alliance, i am very keen that the latvian presidency promote the cultural and linguistic diversity of the european union, taking into account that all european cultures are equally valuable and valued and that the concept of linguistic diversity applies not only to the official languages of the european union but also to regional languages and languages not officially recognised in the member states. as president of the russian federation in latvia, i strongly urge the latvian ruling parties, inspired by their current high missions to the european union, to review their policy of linguistic discrimination and segregation of the population, granting latvian non-citizens all the rights of citizens and guaranteeing the official status of the russian language, which is the mother tongue of 40% of the population. i hope that these aspirations will be fulfilled, because only societies that guarantee cultural diversity and promote mutual respect between people from different cultures are capable of meeting the challenges of our time. recent events in france have been a fine illustration of this. i want us to succeed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. ukraine must implement reforms that are not possible today in the context of war. and we have to realize here that by supporting ukraine, we are also supporting the security of the european union. a stable and united ukraine is the security of the european union. i welcome the european commission's proposal to provide ukraine with 1.8 billion, but the real stabilisation of ukraine requires more help. the european people's party therefore calls for a european 'marshall plan' for ukraine. of course, it must be linked in the strongest possible way to targeted reforms, and i hope that the elected leaders of ukraine also understand this. we need to help not only strengthen ukraine's defense capabilities, but to help ukraine stand up to russian propaganda. this propaganda is also directed against europe and our values. i expect the european commission to propose a communication strategy to protect european values against disinformation from hostile countries. thank you.
madam president, we miscalculated the beginning of the conflict and war in ukraine, so let us not mismanage the end of the conflict. we sometimes speak about a strong russia; but russia is not as strong as we are weak, because we are divided and we are afraid – partly because of our misunderstanding of the situation and also partly because of the assistance of our far right and far left, which are united in order to weaken the european union. we also do not need to leave the back door open for a retreat, and to go back to business as usual with russia, just because we can find excuses to do this. we have to first stop the aggressor, and only afterwards can we can start to go back to business as usual. the key to success is a firm stance against the russian aggression, and at the same time also firm support for ukraine. ukraine should be supported first of all with funding and advice. this is what many analysts and experts, such as alex motyl and anders åslund, are saying. even george soros is saying this. but to do this, we also need to be firm with the ukrainians and tell them that they need to implement their reforms. i am not sure they understand this very clearly in the limited time they have. we also should understand that we have to speak a clear language and have a clear head with all of this. so let us not live in an illusion, and let us be realistic, because ukraine is our strategic interest.
in writing. i voted in favour, except for the amendments opposed by the progressive alliance of socialists group. but overall i voted for the report by my colleague, mr valens, because the european ombudsman is an extremely important institution in the european union. listening to the debates and seeing the real situation where eu citizens turn to the ombudsman with their complaints, it is clear that he is a real instrument of democracy and human rights in the european union. overall, its work provides grounds for optimism and this mechanism needs to be strengthened.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole because the situation in libya is getting worse. the humanitarian crisis, the thousands of refugees and the plight of children - the european union cannot provide any kind of response or assistance for the time being. not to mention the swearing by the so-called islamic state. i abstained on two amendments tabled by other gue/ngl meps because i could not vote against and therefore not support their views on nato's alleged responsibility for the current situation in libya (on paragraphs 2 and 3, amendment no 6) and on criticism of the 2011 nato and uk air strikes (also gue/ngl amendment, recital a, amendment no 4). but overall, i supported my group's position.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. for me, not only the separate paragraphs but also the spirit of the resolution in general are unacceptable. it is a spirit of hatred to all and everything that does not agree with the policy of the present kiev authorities. the resolution contains statements based on certain anonymous ‘credible sources’. how can this be combined with the principle of openness? how can the appeal to counter the russian propaganda campaign (see paragraph 26), which is in fact an appeal for an information war, be combined with the principle of freedom of speech, which is extremely topical after the paris attacks? nevertheless, i do appreciate that the resolution contains a call for an effective investigation of all major moments of violence (paragraph 24) and of the tragic downing of the malaysian airlines flight (paragraph 27).
in writing. i voted against this resolution because it would only aggravate the current situation in eastern ukraine, not contribute to peace, and not help peace talks between all parties to the conflict. despite the s&d group's position to vote against all the amendments proposed by the gue/ngl group, i abstained and did not vote against them (as did other social democrat colleagues). the following amendments are: after paragraph 1, amendment no 8 (in english: military repression against the donbas protest movement), amendment no 9 (in english: criminalisation of communist ideology), amendment no 10 (in english: withdrawal of ukrainian aggression forces from donbas), amendment no 11 (in english: military agressiveness of nato), after paragraph 3, amendment no 6 (in english: condemnation of attacks against the communist party). i voted for amendment no 2, paragraph 6, because i believe that sanctions do not work and do not produce results. i also voted against the amendments to the original text of paragraph 13, which would have allowed eu member states to provide defensive arms to ukraine. i repeat: i voted against this resolution by a show of hands. there is only one way to solve the ukrainian crisis - diplomacy and negotiation.
in writing. i voted yes because the situation in egypt is not normal and my political group is rejecting it. the situation where elections are held under the auspices of the army and people are killed is a great tragedy. it is unfortunate that the amendment was adopted, according to which the death toll is about 600 people, because in fact the text was talking about more than 1100 deaths, as noted not by experts close to the egyptian government, but by independent and respected experts such as human rights watch. i also supported all the amendments of the s&d group.
in writing. this is a very strange and still quite incomprehensible thing. i voted for this resolution because such situations can happen again: when thousands of refugees try to swim to the southern shores of the european union, more and more pseudo-captains will appear to take and take refugees on ships, and later on the lives of these people may be endangered. the european union must address migration policy by being more proactive in protecting european interests on the one hand and in providing assistance to people in need on the other.
in writing. of all the motions for resolutions, i voted for the s&d group's draft resolution, but unfortunately our text was not adopted by a majority of meps. it is still the most controversial question of how we will develop the economy after the crisis in the eu, how we will create jobs. the social democrats have their own vision, and it is a pity that not all our colleagues in the ep understand it.
in writing. imprisoning journalists for doing their job is unacceptable, especially as turkey still wants to be accepted into the european union. now, as we know, it has associative state status. the erdogan regime is becoming increasingly undemocratic, and one can only regret this. i voted on the draft document because of the problem of freedom of speech in turkey, and it was adopted.
we as consumers have a right to know what we're eating, what our children are eating, what our parents are eating. the meat producers, the farmers, are also interested in this labelling because they want to develop their own brand, their own quality brand. yes, processors and intermediaries are against it, not so much because it's going to make the product a little bit stale, but because it's easier to hide the country of origin and the place of origin. and let's not forget that we're about to be inundated with cheap meat from the united states, which is grown and produced using genetically modified animal feed. we've all heard stories about chicken from america that's been treated with chlorine. is that what we want to know? yes, we want to know what we're eating, we have a right to know. and i'm really wondering if anyone in this upper house has any objections to transparency, or if the commission has anything to hide?
i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 1992, when milosevic attacked serbia's neighbours, we europeans were reluctant to provide military assistance because we were afraid of escalation. but because milosevic was not stopped in time, the conflict turned into a bloody war that claimed more than 100,000 lives. europe and nato are currently working to help strengthen ukraine's defence capabilities. and once again, our lack of resolve is actually fueling the aggression as putin's armed terrorists and russian special forces soldiers continue to take over the land of ukraine. without a halt to this aggression, ukraine will not be able to establish and strengthen democratic institutions, implement reforms and attract the investment so desperately needed for ukraine's development. ukraine needs our help now, not after it has lost more territory and more people. thank you, mr president.
in writing. the new directive on the exchange of data between member states on road traffic offenders replaces a directive adopted in 2011 with almost identical content, which was annulled by the court of justice of the eu on the grounds that its legal basis needed to be changed. this has now been done, and this new directive builds on the eu's expertise in transport safety. it is welcome that parliament and the council were able to agree on this new directive in a very short time, so that the new regulation will enter into force in the member states as originally planned - on 6 may this year, now covering all eu member states, including the uk, ireland and denmark. the directive is to be welcomed as it will finally put an end to the widespread practice of drivers who commit serious road traffic offences in other eu countries actually not being punished or being punished very rarely. however, it is now up to the member states to ensure that this directive has meaning and results, and we expect the member states' authorities to act, using data exchange systems, not only to identify and find offenders, but also to effectively punish them. the main objective of this directive is to improve road safety, which is one of the objectives of the eu's transport policy, and the number of victims of accidents on european roads remains high.
in writing. i voted in favour because the situation is unacceptable from the point of view of european democracy and human rights. i voted with my group, in particular in favour of amendments which, for example, call for the national investigation into the us cip to be made publicly available (amendment by the alde group, after paragraph 6 in the text of the resolution).
in writing. i voted in favour of the text of the resolution overall, although i voted with my political group against the amendment to paragraph 6 7d (in english: stricter rules on traceability are wanted by consumers and could help in investigating food fraud) proposed by the people's party group. my group and i were also against the amendment of the people's party group on horse meat (paragraph 7, amendment 8d we asked to delete from the text, in english: deletes horsemeat considerable share of meat used in processed foods). the amendment of the group of the people's party to paragraph 19 (in english: calls on the comission to come forward with legislative proposals for mandatory labelling of meat in processed foods) did not pass, otherwise our whole s&d group would have voted against the entire resolution. we also did not support the 'people's amendment' in recital d (in english: 'pork and poultry represent larger share of meat in processed food and processing different than for beef') and we were on the original text of the resolution in this case.
in writing. - although i consider the proposal to indicate the country of origin on the packaging of processed meat products to be generally supportive, i could not support the resolution put to the vote. i have always advocated that europe should be strong in quality food production, including greater transparency in the food chain to better inform consumers about the origin and composition of products. however, i do not think that this motion for a resolution has achieved the desired result of informing consumers about the country of origin of the meat, while at the same time avoiding creating disproportionate costs for producers, especially farmers and smes. similarly, the studies carried out by the european commission so far do not provide any clarity on the extent of the financial burden on producers and i therefore consider that the commission should undertake a more in-depth study on the costs of the labelling system before further legislative acts are drawn up. i am confident that we will be able to develop legislation that will allow the consumer to be informed about the food available in the store, so that he can choose healthy local products, while at the same time avoiding a situation where the costs of the labelling process are passed on to primary producers without any compensation in the food chain.
madam president, this discussion shows that we are not a perfect institution, we are not perfect societies, we are not perfect countries, but at the same time we must remember that sometimes the road to hell is paved with good intentions. in particular, we can all state, and we know, that fundamental rights are basics for our institutions in the european union, but if we look at history we also know that they have been applied differently: differently in west and east, differently in north and south. i am not speaking here about the league of nations and those days when countries like czechoslovakia had to implement rights for minorities which none of the other countries which suggested this implementation did themselves. i can say the same about all those countries which joined the european union later on, via the copenhagen criteria, which have implemented things like national minorities’ rights which still do not exist, maybe, in many other countries. by stating this, i would like to say that we have to stick not only to fundamental rights but also to other principles which rule the european union such as the montesquieu principle of division of roles, of division of powers, and also the principle that it is the courts which can decide and not some political institutions. in this discussion, i see that somebody is willing to create a political institution which will sometimes take the role of the courts, but i find creating a new institution at this moment counterproductive. moreover, let us remember that even in this chamber in the european union we have people who are influenced by certain types of ngos which are getting money, or by parties which are getting money, from countries outside the european union which do not care about fundamental rights or democracy or anything else, but which complain and create discord among us here. so let us try to use all the mechanisms that we do have. let us stick to fundamental divisions of powers, and we will be much more successful than here today.
in writing. i was among the members who signed the letter on the opening of the luxleaks investigation. because it's important to know the truth and prevent this from happening again in the future. taxes are due on all without exception. otherwise, how can we, for example, ask latvian farmers to pay every last penny and at the same time allow large corporations to avoid paying taxes, where not paying taxes saves millions. i also voted today for the creation of the committee, although my fellow meps from the greens group prefer to go to the luxembourg court because, when they initiated the inquiry, they asked for a different mandate for this committee than the one that was actually appointed at the conference of presidents.
in writing. what's happening in iraq and syria right now is just a bunch of bullshit. to behead innocent people and proclaim it as the only right way to live in the world is not acceptable. i felt that the wording of the resolution on sexual minorities was inadequate, but i supported the resolution overall. but what is happening in iraq and syria after the actual fall of the previous regime is fundamentally a big mistake by the european union, and we are already seeing the consequences. all of this could have been predicted five or ten years ago.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! we're going to europe. we stand out as the world's largest energy importer - more than half of our energy is bought from outside. that's more than a billion euros a day that we pay out of our taxes, our money, to others. and who is our biggest supplier? our biggest supplier of both oil and gas is russia. but what does the russian president do? the russian president is not just at war with ukraine, but he is actually at war with our entire value system. so we have to break our huge dependence on energy imports. and the solution, i think, is this energy union that we're proposing here. this, i think, is a very good plan for how we can reduce our overall dependence on imports. in particular, i would like to emphasise that the interconnection directly established between member states in both electricity and gas networks will be one that will allow member states to break their dependence on a single source of imports, and will also allow for greater use of renewable energy resources. so by supporting the creation of this energy union, we will reduce our dependence on imported energy, and we will reduce the amount of money we pay mr. putin every day to actually wage war against all of us. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to say that we are not talking here and we are not complaining that someone in the kremlin is happy about this or that someone sitting here is happy and sympathizes with the kremlin's policies. i think that sanctions should be maintained, and on behalf of the transport committee i can only say what we are talking about today. the fact is that russia has been discriminating against road transport, especially food transport, even with different regimes in the european union member states, long before the sanctions. the point is that if we have redistribution of money from the agricultural fund in agriculture and at the same time we have the funds from the globalisation fund, as mr van de camp also mentioned, for cases where business has been affected by the processes of globalisation, then in relation to such political processes we have no instrument of solidarity to apply to the road transport sector, which seems absolutely unthinkable. finally, these eastern european carriers, which have suffered the most from this part, are also under pressure from so-called social dumping in the road transport sector and from methods which are currently suspended but not necessarily abolished, such as the german minimum wage for transit traffic. thank you, i thought that was it!
in writing. ‒ i voted for the joint text with my political group because i think a good political compromise has been reached. a qualified majority (3/5 of all members present) was required for the vote, which was achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, along with 465 other members, and the hofmann report was adopted.
in writing. - i voted for it, it was a nominating vote. 534 meps, including myself and my colleagues from the s&d group, supported the report by mr andrej plenkovic.
in writing. ‒ i could not help but support this member's negresko report because it was in the package with the previous reports on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline.
in writing. i voted yes.
in writing. - that was not the final vote on the second reading. the vote was in block, without amendments, and concerns a substantial sector such as domestic and international road transport. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ investment funds are a great and good tool for economic development. i supported both the commission's amendment and the overall vote in favour. the resolution shall have the character of a legislative act.
in writing. despite the growth of the european economy as a whole, major projects related to transport infrastructure, sustainable energy production or distribution, social infrastructure such as housing or hospitals, the introduction of new technologies and the growth of smes are often underfunded. moreover, banks are not always motivated to lend to such long-term projects. therefore, eltifs are one of the alternatives, offering non-listed companies a wider choice of funding sources. currently, the regulation of eu long-term investment funds is left to the discretion of the member states, resulting in divergent investment protection measures that distort competition. therefore, i support the provisions for the creation of european union long-term investment funds, which aim to increase european long-term investment in the real economy by establishing uniform rules for the operation of eltifs with regard to the composition of their portfolios and the investment instruments they may use to engage in long-term asset exposures. the new rules will make it possible to finance important research, infrastructure, etc. projects.
in writing. ‒ given the potential benefits for consumers, i supported the proposal for a regulation on interchange fees for card-related payment transactions at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. when making payments with bank payment cards, their users pay a commission fee. the market determines the amount of the fine, which banks agree to pay. the european commission's study showed that there is insufficient competition in the market for interbank card payments and therefore high prices, and it concluded that new companies have difficulty entering this market. the law provides for a ceiling of 0,2% for debit cards and 0,3% for credit cards on the amount of the payment. according to the assessment of the legislators, these ceilings should be sufficient to reduce the cost of bank payment cards to consumers. it is also argued that banks will be forced to shift costs to other services they provide, for which consumers will simply now have to pay more. despite bank opposition, such legislation has also been introduced in the united states, australia and switzerland. the actual benefits will have to be assessed later, but the potential benefits - the use of cheaper cards - are sufficient to support this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with today's vote on the report on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. this is a very important step towards gradually overcoming the financial feudalism in the european union which continues to cause difficulties for our citizens and businesses. after taking the first step, we must also think about the next. for example, when european companies transfer money to their partners outside the european union, the cost of this transfer is very high. very often, the cost of transferring money from one eu country to another in euro is higher than in dollars. in addition, the majority of these fees are charged by the european union banks. such a high fee has no financial justification, but is merely a desire to obtain an inadequate profit at the expense of others. this makes life difficult, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises that make small payments. so we have a lot of work to do in this area. i would like to thank everyone who worked on the report adopted today and i would like to encourage us all to continue moving in the right direction.
in writing. uniform european union rules on bank card fees charged by banks to retailers for processing customer payments are of paramount importance as they clearly define the thresholds for these payments. the new regulation sets them at 0,2% of the purchase price for debit card settlements and 0,3% for credit cards. the beneficiaries of these rules will be traders, especially smes, as well as consumers. we consumers often do not even think that part of the price of a product is also the mandatory payment by the seller to the bank for the card service. the cost of these fees to the bank is then passed on to the final product price, which we pay from our own pockets. i therefore hope that the new rules which i voted for will encourage merchants and service providers who have not accepted credit card payments in the past, precisely because of the high cost, to do so more readily. in theory, the provisions contained in the regulation could also be a good reason for lowering the prices of goods and services in the retail trade.
in writing. ‒ the gue/ngl proposal in the second paragraph was not supported, although i and my group voted in favour. but overall, the report was accepted, as you can see from the fact that the vote was nominative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since the report focuses on several important aspects on which improvement is needed. among them are the promotion and support of entrepreneurship among women, combating gender stereotypes, encouraging measures for a better work-life balance, equal opportunities in matters of employment as well as combating violence against women. when it comes to sexual and reproductive rights, not least by having ready access to contraception and abortion, i believe women must have control over their sexual and reproductive health and rights and different choices available. however, the legislation in this area is and should remain in the competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on the report on the progress made in the european union in 2013 in ensuring equality between women and men. i believe that the achievement of gender equality and progress in this area is of the utmost importance in order to guarantee the human rights of every citizen of the european union and to promote the well-being of its citizens. at the same time, the elimination of discrimination is also important for ensuring sustainable social and economic development, and therefore it is essential to effectively unlock the potential of every citizen, regardless of gender. economic and social achievements and progress are only possible if everyone has an equal share in the achievements of the nation. as women, men have a huge potential to promote economic growth and prosperity in latvia and other eu member states.
in writing. ‒ it is one of the main achievements of achieving equality between men and women. however, i voted against, for example, amendments that affect women's right to abortion. i was not able to accept the 16th amendment, which was about paragraph 42, which made media regulators fight mass media in the member states by fighting gender stereotypes. we have only our latvian "tele-radio" to spread this practice throughout the eu. i abstained in the vote on the 12th and 17th amendments of the ecr and epp groups - against the right of women to have an abortion. although my whole group was against it. i also did not accept the offer in paragraph 45 to protect information about abortions (amendment 11). it was the same split vote in both parts on abortion and contraception. i took a similar position (after citation 47) on both the epp and ecr amendments on reproductive rights. i have supported this report by our colleague mr tarabella because it contains good ideas for fighting for the rights of women who have suffered violence and for equal pay without abortion (which i consider to be a form of murder). because you can't discriminate against women just because of their gender!
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg for the annual report on eu competition policy because it supports ensuring fair competition in the european union. i believe that fair competition in the european union will enable latvian companies to gain access to new export markets in the european union. competition is important for industry and the business environment, as well as for consumers. competition forces companies to offer consumers the widest choice, satisfying consumers' quality standards at the most competitive prices. competition policy ensures the continuous development, investment and innovation of enterprises. it is important that the european union's competition policy does not allow for a monopolistic business environment where companies exploit a dominant position for abusive purposes. the european union's competition policy therefore includes state aid rules for undertakings to ensure that the state does not provide more aid to one undertaking and less to another, thus creating a competitive disadvantage and crowding out potential competitors from the market.
in writing. ‒ we did not know until the last moment whether our group's amendments to this report would pass or not. as he left, we decided in group, even in the plenary, to vote in favour. which i did.
in writing. ‒ in my vote, i supported the parliament's annual report on eu competition policy, as it stresses that effective and innovation-based competitiveness not only contributes to a faster recovery of the european union as a whole from the crisis, but also strengthens its influence on the world stage and in the global market. i also appreciated the rapporteur's emphasis on the important role of the european parliament in promoting competition policy. however, i would like to emphasise that i do not share the views and concerns expressed in several points of the report about so-called 'social dumping' distorting the european union's single market. we have therefore proposed that debates be held shortly in the committee on transport with commissioner teisén and commissioner bulc to clarify what each of them understands by the concept of social dumping and to analyse the real impact of social dumping on the european single market, where it is in fact often used as a universal argument to prevent the market for services, in particular transport, from being opened up to free competition. the fact that car carriers from other eu member states are not allowed into one of the countries is essentially a protectionist policy which not only prevents the full potential of the eu's internal market from being exploited, but also effectively fragmentates the internal market and encourages a trend towards social fragmentation.
in writing. - i voted in favour because that was the position of our political group. it is vital that the eu's common trade policy is also implemented vis-à-vis third countries, and the result of the vote confirms this. 643 meps were in favour (i am one of them), 32 against and 30 abstained. that's a great result.
in writing. ‒ montenegro managed to get through the crisis in yugoslavia without fighting and without bloodshed. the early integration of montenegro will help this european state to stabilise and rise in the middle of the european continent. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ turkey has been an eu country since 1963. relations with turkey are important for the union and need to be strengthened in the field of economic cooperation. agricultural products should enter the eu market under clear rules that will only facilitate cooperation between the two parties. i voted for this resolution with 583 members, while 112 voted against it.
in writing. - these concessions must be abolished. i support it. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as did 641 other meps. there were only 27 people against it. the mediterranean is increasingly becoming the focus of the ep's attention. fisheries require serious attention from the eu, and this general committee will help to develop the eu's common fisheries policy.
in writing. - this story about sergei stanishev's immunity has a long history. sergei stanishev, my bulgarian colleague, has been the subject of a criminal investigation since 2009 alleging the loss of classified documents. i sympathize with the s&d group's position that the immunity should be waived so that the court can establish sergei stanishev's innocence as soon as possible. that's democracy, not using immunity to hide from investigation, when it's clear that the case is being run on a political agenda. i voted to waive the mp's immunity.
in writing. we have identified the promotion of employment and entrepreneurship as well as support for existing businesses as financial priorities for the 2016 eu budget. eu support for entrepreneurship is crucial to boosting latvia's economy and improving the well-being of its population. given the current situation in ukraine, relations with russia and the terrorist attacks in europe, it is vital that the eu budget next year allocates more money to security and defence, in particular more money to the protection of the external borders. it is also important to allocate resources to improving internal security and police and judicial cooperation between member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. successful cohesion projects, financing areas such as infrastructure, labour training and urban and regional development, require a settlement of the projects carried out and a timely payment of the services provided in the future. next year's budget will be crucial to the implementation of the european investment plan, which is expected to bring €315 billion into the european economy. i hope that we will also ask latvia to use the support provided by this fund to develop projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy efficiency and other sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the socialists and democrats in parliament welcome the adoption of the reports on serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), montenegro and kosovo, and call on the commission and the council to show renewed eu commitment to the western balkans enlargement process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the socialists and democrats in parliament welcome the adoption of the reports on serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), montenegro and kosovo, and call on the commission and the council to show renewed eu commitment to the western balkans enlargement process.
in writing. ‒ the socialists and democrats in parliament welcome the adoption of the reports on serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), montenegro and kosovo, and call on the commission and the council to show renewed eu commitment to the western balkans enlargement process. i voted in favour with my colleagues from my political group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. i agree with my colleague, shadow reporter and s&d mep pier antonio panzeri, that kosovo needs to deliver on strengthening the rule of law, including the independence of the judiciary, the fight against organised crime and corruption, and reforms in their public administration. socioeconomic developments have to be carefully dealt with. kosovoʼs authorities have to responsibly outline a vision and provide kosovoʼs citizens with a perspective of tangible economic improvement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the six-month period for the coordination of european economic policies at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the european parliament resolution on the 2015 growth survey stresses the need for investment, structural reforms and fiscal measures to boost growth. the resolution stresses the need to take measures to ensure the stability of the european union, which is so necessary for latvian businesses exporting to other eu countries. the european semester, or the half-year of european economic policy coordination, includes measures to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis in the eu, as we experienced in 2008. the european semester process begins with an opinion from the european commission, a growth study, setting out the overall state of the european union's economy and the challenges it faces, as well as giving specific guidance. the resolution stresses the need to take measures to ensure stability in the european union, which is so necessary for latvian businesses exporting to other eu countries, and i therefore supported it.
in writing. the free movement of citizens, goods and capital within the european union is the basis of the eu's single market. the single market is the most important component of the eu's economic growth, also enabling latvian producers to sell their products in other eu member states, while providing consumers with a wide range of products. although the single market was formally launched 20 years ago, it is still incomplete and the potential of the single market is not being fully exploited, mainly because member states have not fully implemented the eu's single legislation. as a result, latvian exporters are also often confronted with single market restrictive mechanisms in other eu countries. the support report calls on the european commission and the member states to do everything possible to ensure that the legislation adopted in the field of the single market is actually working, thereby improving the governance of the single market. i also believe that the eu needs to be more competitive on the global market by eliminating unduly burdensome regulation, especially for smes, and by improving access to finance and ensuring quality investment in research and innovation. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the market for electronic communications services. the single market in transport and energy, which is of such importance for latvia, has not yet been established.
on behalf of the ppe group the murder of the useless nemtsov is a message from the putin system to the entire liberal democratic world: we are ready for anything to maintain our dictatorship. but we europeans know from experience that sooner or later every dictatorship destroys itself from within, so we must arm ourselves with strategic patience and prepare to defend ourselves against the agony of the putin regime, which may last for years. among the many works, i would like to highlight some of the most important: putin's system feeds on our petrodollars. that is why we need common gas purchasing in the european energy union. it'll be cheaper and more fair. the putin's propaganda machine is actively taking over people's minds. europe must therefore create a countermeasure to quality and attractive media and support journalists who write in russian. european countries have enjoyed the 'dividend of oil' for decades and have not invested enough in defence. president juncker has started talking about a european army, so member states should start with an adequate defence budget, reaching two per cent of gdp. and finally, we must continue to dialogue and engage with the russian people, educate the youth so that when the regime falls, russia will have modern and european people who can lead the country out of the trap of repeated dictatorships. thank you for your attention. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer.– i will answer your question. prime minister orbán was elected with a great majority by the hungarian people and no other european member state can change that. that is why it is important that we have him in our epp political party, and we have a current and ever—growing dialogue on the values that we share.
mr president, i think the report of mr brok advocates the policy giving the high representative a negative role regarding the current conflicts in its neighbourhood. this role is to be urgently corrected, and if not, this collation of conflicts, global and multiregional as well, will take place. which mistake needs to be corrected first? it is a myth that there is constant equality of geopolitical and national interests of the eu member states and the united states. the unipolar world is over. strategic partnership of the eu and russia, especially with the participation of china, brazil and india, is a nightmare for american policy. the eu position towards russia, which makes us economically and politically weaker than before, has become a hostage of anti—russian sentiments, not only of neocon circles in the united states but also in the baltic countries and poland, and the debates in this chamber clearly prove this. a united europe should be autonomous in its decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. today i voted against the resolution and i would like to explain why. what was the original objective of this resolution in principle? i thought that to express my negative attitude towards the brutal murder of boris nemtsov, to express my sympathy to his relatives, to demand that the russian authorities find and punish the murderers. but what does this text look like as a result? it was supplemented by a number of other issues, the title and content of which were supplemented by a broad theme on the state of democracy in russia. the resolution on nemtsov's death included additional questions about the estonian police officer, the russian politician navalny and his brother oleg, the ukrainian pilot nadezhda shavchenko, the annexation of crimea, russia's information war against its neighbors and the polish plane crash, and many other issues. my fellow citizens! i don't think it's a good practice to start talking about one topic and then practically replace it with another. i therefore urge that the original idea of the resolution be retained and not radically altered in the course of the debate. thank you.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. the murder of boris nemtsov is a very tragic event. the first thing to analyse in such a crime is to pose the question of who benefits from it. certainly not the president of russia. anti—putin hysteria has inflated around this event, and clearly one of the elements of the resolution proves this statement. therefore, there are clear elements of provocation in this murder. who has profited from this situation apart from those who ordered nemtsov’s killing? certainly those who, while being superficially familiar with boris, are making cheap self-advertising around his murder when not being allowed to cross the russian border for the funeral. as regards the state of democracy in russia, people say that boris nemtsov was killed in the aftermath of an opposition rally, but nobody mentions that on the very same day he was inviting people to this rally through the very influential source of mass information financed by the state—owned company gazprom – radio ekho moskvy, so ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i voted against this report. it advocates the enforcement of the policy giving the eu a negative role in the current conflicts in its neighbourhood. as a native russian speaker living in an eu member state, i am desperate seeing the policies the eu has had towards russia after the dissolution of the ussr. the new europe was built for the first 15 years without russia, but for the last eight years against russia. the eastern partnership programme has turned to the so—called baltic—black—caspian sea arch, from a bridge into an abyss. in october 2013, there was another resolution here in strasbourg on the principles of eu foreign policy, tabled by mr brok, where our relations towards russia were defined as ‘critical engagement’. in fact it was a unilateral declaration of a cold war towards russia. the resolution which was adopted today does not turn the eu back from the way of war. those politicians who have supported this trend will be responsible before the court of history.
in writing. - i voted yes. because the important thing for all of us to understand is that the fight against terrorism is not the fight against islam. it is not a fight against non-christian nations. this is a human-versus-nonhuman fight. the terrorist threat to europe is a major problem today. cooperation with the arab league is a great asset for the eu and a hope for a successful and secure future in europe, asia and africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i consider the case of mr uspaskich to be politically fabricated and biased. on this point, i would agree with the leader of the liberal group that there is a reason to refer the uspaskich case back to the juri committee, without, for the time being, withdrawing his immunity.
in writing. - i voted yes because there is no other way. what should be taken into account in the context of macro-financial assistance to ukraine? first, according to the national bank of ukraine, the country's external debt has reached 96.5 percent of gdp and now stands at $126 billion. the ukrainian economy continues to contract and a large budget deficit is expected. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities, which have not provided any information on the amount of the loan. secondly, it is not a non-repayable grant, it is a loan that the ukrainian government will have to repay. the illusion existed in ukrainian society and political elites that the european union would help much more. a few days ago, the leader of one of the parties in the ruling coalition, oleg lyashko, called on the us and the eu to pay in full ukraine's debts of $7.7 billion that ukraine will have to pay to creditors this year, including 3 billion to russia. unfortunately, after today's vote, ukrainians will more likely see the eu as a rich uncle who, when relatives' families are in financial difficulty, gives them only a small loan and a lot of advice on how to live properly.
in writing. ‒ i believe that tax policy should be the responsibility of the state and that interference from brussels by demanding an increase in tax rates would harm the competitiveness of our companies and the state, which is why i voted against the annual report on taxation in the parliament's plenary session. the european parliament gives its opinion on the tax policies of the european union and the member states every year. although parliament's opinion in this year's report mainly emphasises the need to tackle tax fraud and evasion, it did include a requirement for the european commission to assess the possibility of setting a minimum corporate income tax rate. i consider the inclusion of such a requirement in the report unacceptable and for that reason i voted against the report.
world history is marked not only by great growth and the enlightenment but also by bloody crimes committed against nations or large groups of people. such a crime is the genocide committed against the armenian people in 1915. this year, the world marks the 100th anniversary of that crime, and the blood of its innocent victims continues to poison relations between armenia and turkey. i call on turkey's leaders, parliamentarians, intellectuals and the wider society to come to terms with their past, to accept the events of the past and to lay the foundations for genuine dialogue and reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. the ability to take responsibility for one's history is the measure of a nation's greatness. i believe that the turkish people can do it, because you cannot build a healthy, modern society if it is not based on truth.
in writing. ‒ i supported the regulation on the creation of an ezvana system in cars because i believe it will save many lives in the event of accidents. this law requires car manufacturers to install in the production process a device that automatically calls the responsible services in the event of an accident. this system allows emergency services to reach the exact location of an accident in a timely manner. in situations where every minute counts to save a life, it is vital that the emergency services arrive as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i voted yes because it was worth it. this system will save about 2,000 lives a year. it's going to cost ten euros.
in writing. although the overall number of victims of car accidents on european roads is slowly decreasing, some 26 000 people are still killed and several thousand seriously injured each year. the statistics in latvia are even more gloomy. if in the european union as a whole, an average of 50 people per million inhabitants die in road accidents in a year, then in latvia, unfortunately, the figure is 106. i therefore believe that more attention should be paid to helping those who have been affected. the proposal for a directive provides for the phased introduction of ecall, which will automatically send the location of the vehicle to the nearest emergency service in the event of an accident, in all new car models. since the ecall system will build on the existing 122 service, assistance will be standardised across the european union and language barriers will be removed. i believe that, thanks to ecall, which will be a public service, available free of charge to everyone, regardless of the class or make of the vehicle, rapid assistance will be able to respond more quickly, thus reducing the number of victims in accidents. given that the draft law includes data protection provisions to exclude the possibility of tracking ecall-equipped cars or the transfer of personal data to a third party, i rejected the amendment put to the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a directive regulating the sources from which biofuels must be produced, because the industry needs to be clear about the future. you can't make demands and change the rules of the game that destroy an entire industry. it is a first and second generation biofuel. the production of first-generation fuels requires large areas of agricultural land to grow the raw materials. this raises concerns that the reduction in co2 emissions may not be as significant as it would be if these agricultural lands were replaced by food or forestry. in contrast, second generation biofuels are produced from other sources, such as waste. second-generation biofuels are even more environmentally friendly. however, it should be noted that the industry has made huge investments in first generation biofuels, which are already making a major contribution to reducing polluting activities in the transport sector. it is not possible for the industry to start producing biofuels from other sources immediately, as this requires different technology and correspondingly huge investments. the transition is gradual. the commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i think the text we voted on is balanced. this gives first generation biofuel producers time to switch to second generation biofuel production in order to balance the return on investment with environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i support a system that does, however, limit the use of food raw materials for biofuels. because it could lead to developing countries having their lunch burned in the engines of cars in developed countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg for a directive to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. statistics and facts are undeniable the consumption of plastic carrier bags is projected to increase and they are reused by a very small proportion of the population of the european union. this inefficient management has resulted in a rapid increase in waste. this creates significant environmental problems, as the degradation of this material in nature takes many decades and irreversibly pollutes the environment. the directive requires member states to take measures to halve the consumption of plastic bags. how to achieve this is up to the member states. i believe that this directive on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is a necessary step in protecting our environment, ensuring a more sustainable and healthier ecosystem for the people of the european union and reducing waste of resources.
in writing. - i support this decision with both hands. the plastic bag era has led to 89% of bag use cases where a single bag is used only once. it pollutes the environment and harms it for decades. the european parliament has made a good decision.
in writing. every minute, the european union's population uses 200,000 plastic bags, the most common and most environmentally harmful type of plastic. most of these bags are used for only a few minutes, but they can remain in the environment for hundreds of years, posing a serious threat to fish and birds. the single-use plastic products are the most environmentally damaging, with 8 billion plastic bags being thrown away each year, negatively impacting the ecosystem. in latvia, an increased natural resources tax rate was introduced for lightweight plastic bags in 2008, reducing their consumption by 40% over a six-month period. however, the average latvian still uses 466 plastic bags per person per year, and their consumption is decreasing relatively slowly. the proposal for a directive requires countries to gradually reduce their consumption of plastic bags to no more than 90 bags per capita in 2019 and 40 bags per capita in 2025. to meet the targets set, all eu countries will have to ensure that by 2018 these types of plastic bags are no longer available free of charge to consumers. i believe that stricter rules are needed to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags, and therefore i support the directive and voted against the amendment.
in writing. - i support the decision to develop european rather than american cinema dynamically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg for a new european union forest strategy for forests and wood-based industries. forests cover about 40% of the eu's total land area, and almost 50% of latvia's total land area is covered by forests, making forestry a very important industry in latvia as well. i believe that the number of forests in the european union provides us with a great opportunity to further develop forestry, which in turn creates new jobs and growth. in my view, this strategy as a whole directly underlines the very important point that the eu needs to focus on forest management that ensures sustainable and efficient use of resources. because the industry is the eu's biggest organizer, because our entrepreneurs have the best opportunities.
ladies and gentlemen, madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. i think that one of the main tasks for us as legislators is to ensure that the rules of the game are set for business so that there is as much investment and as many new jobs as possible in the european union as a whole. we need to ensure that europe is competitive in virtually all areas of global markets - that is, in the digital field, energy, industry, the services sector, including the financial sector. in this directive we are talking about money market funds. the composition of a single financial market. so we're talking about variable and fixed asset value funds. this proposal and the idea that one such fund should be limited in europe, i think, is contrary to our aim of maintaining and developing europe's competitiveness. why would you do that? if we restrict in europe, this market, this activity, will leave, will leave the european union, will go to asia and the united states. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the idea of restricting the activities of these funds in the european union is not productive. we must defend jobs and the competitiveness of europe as a whole. thank you for your attention.
in writing. excessive alcohol consumption is a serious health and social problem in some eu countries. this will increase both national health and social costs. statistics show that some five to nine million children in the eu live in families adversely affected by alcohol use, and one in four road accidents may be related to speeding. i believe that a unified eu strategy could help national governments to reduce alcohol-related harm by collecting statistics and educating citizens. at the same time, the rules should take account of the different situations of the member states, allowing them to choose the most appropriate means of drawing public attention to the harmful effects of alcohol. campaigns to educate young people, warning labels about the dangers of speeding, or messages about the dangers of alcohol during pregnancy are just some examples of how this could be done. it is also necessary to ensure that the new rules do not have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. on the positive side, some alcohol-producing companies in latvia are already choosing to put warnings on their products about the negative effects of alcohol on pregnant women or drivers. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european health insurance card for all citizens of the european union.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu's approach to migration and asylum policy. of course, to me, it's an attempt to put a little patch on a giant tooth. european migration policy reflects, in my view, the ideological problems of the european union. we have to choose either to recognise that the main ideology of the european countries is local egoism, or to accept that the eu is a declaration of fundamental values. in the first case, we lose our moral right to teach and condemn other nations for acting in their own selfish interests. secondly, we must act on principle, even though many europeans may not like it. people want to live better, so they go to europe. it's natural, and there are no walls to stop them. we need to help them to get their lives in order and improve them in their own countries or to help them integrate into european society if they want to come to europe. both require our solidarity. if we do not want to do that, then we must honestly admit that the main fundamental value that unites us is selfishness.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. on the one hand, it may seem to us that the borders of the european union are slowly disappearing. we can move freely across borders, and we can work in other member states. in many countries we use the single currency, the euro. our companies can do business across borders, and they haven't paid customs tariffs for a long time, and so on. we can even use our cell phones virtually anywhere in the world without limitations. but there is one area where we don't have this kind of border disappearance, and that's the digital realm. why would you do that? because we're completely screwed up in there. for example, i have an internet tv subscription in latvia, which i can watch anywhere in latvia, but as soon as i cross the border, i no longer have access to this service. why would you do that? why is it that, for example, when buying a ticket for a ferry between estonia and finland, the price for the same service differs depending on whether you are accessing the estonian website or the finnish website? what the european commission is proposing is to create a digital single market so that we can overcome the boundaries in this divide, because of course if we are - and we are - europe of 500 million people, the benefits and strength of our competitiveness can only come from being truly united in this important area too. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. as the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, improved supervision of the financial sector is needed, but it must be proportionate in order not to dampen market activity, promote competition and raise prices for financial products. i believe that the european parliament's text respects these principles. indices are used in financial markets to determine the prices of financial contracts and instruments. the functioning of financial markets and fair competition in them require that these indices reflect the market value of financial instruments and contracts. the european commission's proposal for a regulation seeks to improve the quality and reliability of indices following the euribor and libor index manipulation scandals. the amendments proposed by the european parliament to the commission's text provide for strict controls on the most important indices with a very significant impact on the market, i.e. those with an impact on financial contracts and instruments of more than eur 500 billion. the establishment of such significant indices will be monitored by a special committee.
in writing. ‒ sustainable development is the key to people's well-being, which is why i voted on the development finance report at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. i believe that without specific objectives and a sound financial system, growth in europe and the world will be very difficult to achieve. the report calls for the development of a strong cooperation and cooperation in terms of financing, stressing that without international cooperation the objective of sustainable development will not be achieved. the report comes at a very important time, as this is the year in which the updated sustainable development goals and the agreement on global action on climate change will be adopted. for development to be truly high-level and for europe and the world to be brought closer to the sustainable development goals, fiscal cooperation and order at the global level is, in my view, very important.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on safer healthcare in europe improving patient safety and fighting antimicrobial resistance at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. we are responsible for the measures taken to improve healthcare and patient safety in the european union. it is therefore important to ensure that the eu pays due attention to healthcare. the statistics are not encouraging at this time. for example, between 8% and 12% of patients admitted to hospital in the european union are suffering from infections acquired directly from receiving care in eu hospitals. this number could be reduced by about half if health care and patient safety were improved. the report stresses that the rise of antibiotic resistance also needs to be addressed and addressed. given the importance of this topic, i voted for this report because it proposes measures that could bring the medical sector closer to being regulated in the eu and able to provide safe and quality healthcare for 500 million people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on a report setting out environmentally friendly growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). smes are a major driver of economic growth and job creation in europe, and the initiative to help smes to tap into the opportunities of environmentally friendly growth is therefore very welcome. the report is based on the european commission's green action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises, an initiative to further promote the benefits of green growth for smes. the report emphasises the growth potential of the circular and green economy, as well as the importance of resource efficiency and creating a friendly environment for new business creation. i therefore believe that the report is a good start to support smes on their path to green growth and the circular economy, as it is smes that most often face the greatest difficulties in adopting environmentally friendly business practices.
the rapporteur. we are concluding a procedure that has lasted almost two years in the vote today and tomorrow. we have, for example, developed new legislation on the recovery of damages. first of all, i would like to thank, of course, mrs sargentini, co-rapporteur from the libe committee, my colleagues the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission, of course, and also the italian presidency, with whom we were able to conclude the final agreement between parliament and the council. so the question is, what have we done in these two years? first, the european commission, as you know, has proposed to improve the law on debt collection so that it can keep up with and even outpace the criminal world. there were some valuable proposals from the european commission that were approved, namely, there will now be a risk-based approach to catching criminals in, say, money transfers, where the european commission plays a very important role and also helps banks do their job, find out who their customers really are or aren't, and of course there will be a so-called blacklist that will help law enforcement banks, etc. understand in which cases there should be a thorough investigation of potential customers or money transfers. but we have also introduced an innovation on the part of parliament which has finally received support, namely the creation of a european union-wide register of beneficial ownership as an additional tool in the fight against money laundering. what is this ledger? so far, we have a business register in all member states, which shows the ownership structure of the company. but we know that there can be individuals who own it, and there can be companies, companies that are owned by other companies, etc., and there are so-called off-shore chains even within the european union, and ultimately nobody can tell who is behind which company. now our proposal, which has been supported in the new law, will require, along with the establishment of business registers in all member states, that all businesses reveal the true beneficiary, that is, the individual who benefits from it. what does that mean? what that means is that in this chain of offshore transactions that makes law enforcement's job very difficult, we're going to introduce the discovery that we're finally going to be able to see who's behind which company and whether or not their money or their money transfers are legal. it will even help in the collection of taxes, since such schemes are likely to be used not only to recover proceeds of crime but also simply to evade taxation. so this is the innovation that will make the criminal world react in a real way. what's it going to do? this will make these schemes even more difficult, which in turn will mean that the criminal world will have to go further and further away from the european union. but in europe we have everything that the heart could wish for - we have the rule of law, we have safe banks, hence the financial system. we also have, of course, all the properties and things that anyone could want. what this means is that with this change in the law, we're not only going to make it much harder to get money back, but we're going to push the criminal world, we're going to push them slowly outside the borders of the european union, forcing them to operate in jurisdictions where the rule of law is not that important. thank you all for your cooperation! i call on the house to vote in favour of this bill tomorrow.
the rapporteur. thank you again for your cooperation in the drafting of this directive! there was a lot of talk in the debate, but the groups are very much united. that is, the european parliament's political groups are indeed fully committed to supporting this directive, which will really improve the fight against money laundering by establishing, in particular, this european union-wide register of beneficial ownership. thank you, everyone!
in writing. the new money laundering directives aim to combat tax crimes and the financing of terrorist organisations. it is also expected that new rules will be adopted to improve the traceability of money transfers. the european parliament has succeeded in making the beneficial owners of companies registered in the central registers of the eu member states, which will be accessible to both the competent authorities and to persons with a legitimate interest in this information, such as investigative journalists. the draft law includes a requirement to establish a single register of beneficial owners in the eu. this will be a powerful weapon against criminal networks hiding behind offshore anonymity and will give law enforcement authorities new tools to effectively combat money laundering and tax fraud schemes. the register will help to identify who pays taxes and where, and will promote fair competition and thus improve the investment climate in the member states. the draft law provides that information on beneciaries will be available to law enforcement authorities, as well as to banks, lawyers, auditors and other bodies referred to in the draft law, throughout the eu. the single register of beneficial owners will have to be operational within two years of the entry into force of the law. the draft law provides for the introduction of a 'blacklist' of third country jurisdictions with deficiencies in anti-money laundering. companies or individuals from blacklisted countries will therefore be subject to strict scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ there was no vote in plenary, as the document was accepted after assent. this report by carina and sargentini, which was drawn up in the previous legislature, was also a trialogue with the european commission.
in writing. ‒ there was no vote in plenary, as the document was accepted after assent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings. this legislative act regulates the rules on insolvency where more than one european union country is involved in the proceedings. the new regulation specifies the rules for cooperation between courts and insolvency practitioners and establishes a register for the cross-border registration of insolvency cases which is publicly available. i believe that this legislative act will contribute to a faster handling of cross-border insolvency cases and to an overall improvement of the business environment. this is another area where the harmonisation of rules can improve the functioning of the single market.
in writing. - there was no vote because the document was accepted by consensus.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the european commission's proposal to allow importers and processors of these metals to introduce a voluntary verification system, in the vote on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union system for self-certification of responsible importers of lead, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, as regards the due diligence of the supply chain, or so-called conflict minerals regulation. the rule applies to metals used in the manufacture of high-tech products such as mobile phones, computers. importers of these metals should carry out checks to identify the source of the metals concerned and to prevent the possibility that they could be imported from areas of military conflict. the voluntary introduction of a verification system would not increase prices or eliminate individual companies, as in many cases it is not possible to identify the original suppliers due to the length and complexity of global trade chains. it would also save many jobs, because these metals have to come to europe to make countless products at all. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to impose a higher level of controls on the supply of electricity to the member states. in the final vote, the majority of the european parliament voted for the introduction of mandatory and even stricter controls, and i therefore abstained because i believe that the text proposed by the european commission is proportionate to all parties involved and will achieve the objectives of the regulation.
in writing. - i voted to postpone, and the majority was only 343 to 331. this report, this resolution, was tabled at the request of my colleague, bernd lange, and that is what this scandalous vote was about. the international trade committee will then ask to vote on this legislative resolution at a later plenary session. it's a victory for the socialist group, because the people today looked confused. we got what we wanted in the key votes, but the people's party group was split.
in writing. - i was among the 618 mps who voted in favour. 33 were against, 28 abstained. lighting, like other eu-like spheres, is all tightly regulated.
in writing. - i am proud to have been among the 419 meps who voted in favour, 97 against and 161 abstentions. the european union is moving closer to uniform standards for maternity leave, but latvia is doing very well against this background. the document will not only promote gender equality, but also help to raise fertility in the eu a little. in principle, this document is a continuation of the initiative launched by my s&d group colleague marc tarabella to protect women's rights and to fight for women's rights.
in writing. ‒ disabled people - certainly in latvia - are abandoned and neglected. this resolution will strengthen the rights of disabled people, because the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is really very good at protecting them. i voted yes. now we need to get to the big eu anti-discrimination directive.
mrs kalniņa-lukaševica, i do not share your optimism, as the eastern partnership in its actual form is a trigger for conflict. the only way for the eu to stop this trend is to prevent any further deterioration of the increasingly fractured relationship with russia and to stop the pressure on the people of the countries of the eastern partnership. the fatal mistake made by the eu is in its interpretation of the partnership, which was assumed to be a character of genuine imperial expansion of the european union in the east. the civil war in ukraine is a poisonous fruit of this fatal distortion. today, 40 years after the helsinki final act was adopted, there is an urgent need to convene a new conference on common security in europe and just this appeal might be made at the riga summit. if the participants will not do it, then civil society will. the role of the eu must be to unite, not divide.
my fellow citizens! the most important task of the riga eastern partnership summit is to answer the question whether the eastern partnership programme will be reformed in terms of form and, above all, in terms of content, or whether these projects are destined to fragment and die out. unfortunately, the symptoms of the disease are already evident. first, it seems that there will be virtually no major decisions at this summit that our partners expect us to make. for example, it is not clear why visa-free regime has not been introduced with georgia, which has already fulfilled all the conditions. i know that the commission intends to take a positive decision in the near future, but i am not sure why it has not been done. it's a matter of attitude. we don't even know we're acting arrogantly. the problem is that the european union is trying to play the role of big brother in these relations, and that is a big mistake. our partners have allergies from previous eras. they want to participate in the programme as equal partners. if this equality is not achieved, we cannot expect positive results. we must start with the reform of the eastern partnership programme. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in latvian, there is a very simple expression with the die no plowing. now imagine that you, commissioner, would ask me to plant a ten-acre field in early spring and you would hand me a spade. well, i'll probably plant that field too... if not this year, then maybe next year, well, maybe next year, while i'm still working on it. it would be very slow and unproductive. we're actually in exactly the same situation. the european union has therefore adopted a law or regulation to ensure that both the wholesale electricity and gas markets are monitored. we have an agency that has to do this work. but it's like you're giving me a gun and saying, "look at that ten-acre farm, we're not giving enough money, but we're asking the agency to do work that it can't really do". what has been the result? the result is that our european consumers are actually suffering from a potential lack of competition which cannot even be properly identified to be discussed. so i really ask you, commissioner, to look again, to find the necessary funds and to allocate them in such a way that this work can be done, because there is really no plowing with the gods. thank you! (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer.– in order to do a task, the first prerequisite is to make sure that you have the tools to do the task. the tools do not mean that everything will be done, and if you had the tools, then everything would be fine. but without the tools, without the funds to have the staff, it is impossible to do the task. so i would see that as square number one. if we have a task, if we have a regulation, we need to enforce that regulation and we need to provide the tools to do the work.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on a report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). the instability and volatility in the eu's eastern and southern neighbourhoods is also testing eu security and defence policy and directly affecting the people of our member states. more than ever, the european union needs a unified security strategy to effectively address emerging security challenges and ensure peace and stability in the eu. europe must stand together and cooperate in the decision-making and shaping of eu security policy. the report stresses that it is easier for member states to guarantee security by speaking with one voice, which is why i supported this initiative. as new security risks emerge, the eu needs to be sure that its security and defence policy is adapted to the new situation, ensuring stability and peace for the eu's citizens.
in writing. - i could not vote for this report despite some good ideas in it. i get the impression that the eu wants to become another nato. instead of looking after the welfare of the eu's citizens, we continue to play war games.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this report because there are millions of poor people in the eu. poverty is our enemy, not some military threat. it is unacceptable to spend huge additional money on military activities in the eu when one in three young people in the eu is unemployed!
in writing. - i couldn't vote for it, i abstained. so did several of my fellow socialists from germany and austria. we must think of peace and job creation first.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the undeniable issues of climate change are very weighty. but when we think about energy, we must not forget energy security, which is just as important to us as it is to europe. let us remember the basic fact that in the european union we are dependent on imported energy. the main country from which we import energy is russia. russia the same country that, because of its military aggression in ukraine, not only destabilizes the security situation in europe, but also, of course, is not invited to the meeting that used to be called the g8, but now and for now only the g7. what i think the european union should do at this meeting is to emphasize the need for the g7 countries to work together directly on energy security. and here the european union has a very important role to play in cooperation with the united states of america, which, thanks to its production of shale oil and shale gas, has very large resources which it cannot export at present because of its own poverty. it would be in europe's interest to see these export restrictions lifted in the united states so that europe can import natural gas, for example, not only from russia but also from the united states, thereby jointly increasing its energy security. so when we think about energy issues, of course, climate change -- this issue is very weighty. but just as important - and this should also be the focus of the g7 meeting - are the energy security issues where we need to work together. thank you for your attention.
[the deputy spoke in latin.]
in writing. - i voted yes because i support this initiative. latvian schoolchildren eat for pennies a day that can be afforded to them from the state budget of latvia, and this could be a great support for latvian and eastern european schoolchildren (there is a similar situation in estonia, for example). the s&d group's position was to vote in favour of the committee responsible.
the blue card issue. i would like to ask my french colleague whether he considers the basque separatist movement to be also a democratic expression of basque nationalism and whether he would support the separation of the basque region from france.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr landsbergis on his good report. russia has always been a tough neighbor for europe. it is a country that bases its relations with europe on the rule of law and the rule of politics. the report by mr landsbergis therefore also reflects a compromise between the optimistic view of the south-west of the european union and the pessimistic view of the north-east of the european union on relations between the european union and russia. we all need to realize that putin, in trying to screw us, is essentially offering a new minsk and a new yalta. he wants to restore spheres of influence in eastern europe and create a buffer zone where russia retains the right to decide the fate of nations. europe must be able to respond to russia in a united way. sanctions should not be reviewed until russia has fully implemented the provisions of the minsk agreements. europe must be able to respond to russia with ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the president agreed to reply to the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).)
, the answer to the blue card question. - mr president! dear lady of the hills! are you aware that by calling for continued sanctions and pressure against russia, against the existing political regime, you will also be hurting the people who helped you and your family survive in the tomsk region, survive the stalinist repression, who helped you survive? they'll suffer too.
the blue card issue. you know, mr. mamikina, if you know so little about siberia, you'd better keep quiet. three of my grandparents were killed in siberia, as were two of my grandfathers and my grandmother. my mother almost died of starvation. what kind of help are you talking about here?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union and russia have imposed economic sanctions on each other, imposed import and export substitution measures on both sides, drawn up blacklists of officials, in fact blacklists, increased funding for defence. the parties are convinced that they are merely responding to each other's actions, as russia and the european union have different reference points. russia believes that the european union was the first to initiate the process by supporting the ouster of the elected president of ukraine, yanukovych, while the european union believes that russia was the first to initiate the process by directly seizing crimea. the commission will be presenting two reports on the subject in the course of this session, both of which will further aggravate this situation, and they are a continuation of the confrontation between the two cars which are driving towards each other, and neither driver wants to stop or give way, because each is convinced that he is right. ladies and gentlemen, if there is a confrontation, there will be no winner. maybe it's time for both sides to stop, put a moratorium on abuse and start a normal dialogue? thank you.
in writing. ‒ this report increases the volume of general payments for agricultural land. of course there is still a huge difference between what farmers in latvia and in france receive. but it's better than nothing. the adjustment approved will improve the situation of farmers in the eu as a whole. i voted in favour and that was a roll call vote.
in writing. ‒ the report endorses the gender equality strategy and deserves approval. i voted in favour of the document in general. but, as is often the case in the european parliament, the excellent ideas of support for motherhood and women's work are intermingled with the fight for the rights of sexual minorities. in the split vote i voted against the first part of paragraph 2 (a special road map for gays and lesbians), i abstained on the amendment to paragraph 24 (a human being can choose his sex), i voted against the adoption of children by homosexual couples (paragraph 31, split vote) and i also abstained on part 3 of paragraph 52 (abortions, even if they are carried out in the hygienic conditions of the hospital) and i also abstained on paragraph 60 (sex education in schools). in the conditions of high infant mortality rates and population decline in latvia such measures will only further deplete the population. we need to bring more children into the world, raise them and educate them. with respect to the great mission of women.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries because i believe that a level playing field in intellectual property rights will create favourable conditions for competition and open up new, safer markets for european exporters. the report underlines and supports the ec's commitment to prioritise improving the protection of intellectual property rights in the world trade organisation and other important international bodies. more uniform protection rules in this area, including cooperation with third countries, will help to develop trade and promote more effective cooperation both at the level of the european union and with third countries, while promoting competition. competition is the engine of growth, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights in third countries. the protection of intellectual property in third countries is one of the problems of the european union as a whole. if the situation in the eu is regulated and on the right track, piracy and theft are on the rise in third countries. i am proud to be one of the 521 members who voted in favour and i am ashamed of the 164 who voted against and the 17 who abstained.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on the motion for a resolution on moving towards renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. this report highlights the importance of the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the digital age, in line with its trends and requirements. the technology and digital environment, and the offerings it provides, are evolving at a tremendous rate, but the legislation and regulations in this sector are not keeping pace with these changes. this is why modern and uniform intellectual property rights will guarantee innovation and promote favourable competition. those rules should take into account the innovative online environment and the different means of distribution that serve the interests of consumers and also support artists and authors by encouraging authors to engage in creative innovation and further improve the quality of content. this resolution also represents an important turning point in the path towards the conditions for the development of the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ the european union's plan is generally quite good, as it opens up wide prospects for guaranteeing intellectual property rights. i voted in favour, i supported all the amendments on individual votes together with the majority of my political group. those who voted against don't understand the idea of intellectual property. i'm embarrassed to say it.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we all know that if we have to pull a very heavy load, we put it on the wheels, we put the horse in front of the cart so that the horse can pull the load. if we put the wheel before the horse, nothing moves forward. let's think about this for a second. we all know that to reduce the threat of global warming, we need to reduce our carbon emissions. we agree on that. the question is just how we do it most surely and best. if we look at the world as a whole, in 2007, the g8 estimated that we would have to reduce co2 emissions by 50% to half by 2050, but now the european union is about a tenth of all global emissions, about 10 to 12%, not more, which means that even if we go to zero in europe, if we have no emissions, we still won't reach that 50% target. so we don't have to put the wheels in front of the horse. we need to get the big economies that have a lot of waste, whether it's the united states, whether it's china, to finally sign these protocols and also start reducing their waste, because if we in europe take all the burden of this on our shoulders, not only will we not achieve the common goals because we don't have that much of that waste, we will continue to weigh on the european economy in the global competition. let's not put the horse behind the cart, let's put the horse in front of the cart! thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: europe is in a precarious situation. we know that we import more than half of all the energy we consume, and that's increasing every year. and the biggest supplier is russia, and it's natural gas, it's oil, it's coal, it's even uranium. the largest supplier is russia. but, colleagues, what is russia doing? we know that in 2006 and 2009 it cut off gas supplies to ukraine because of disagreements, but now for a whole year it not only cuts off gas supplies to ukraine, it is actively engaged in warfare in ukraine and openly uses gas supplies as a weapon, as a means of blackmail. russia - whether we like to admit it or not - has proven that it is no longer a fully reliable partner for us. so what can we do to increase our security? in the report drawn up by parliament, i think it is quite clear (and i ask the commission to take it into account when it comes to the legislation in question): to connect networks to gas, electricity, diversify sources, increase energy efficiency, make greater use of domestic resources and learn to speak with one voice. the european union market as a whole has 500 million consumers. we now buy natural gas separately, for example. if we could join forces, our citizens, businesses and competitiveness in general would benefit. thank you for your attention. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
answer to the blue card question. colleagues, it is quite clear that russia delivers about a third of natural gas to europe through ukraine. if russia can blackmail ukraine, russia can blackmail all of us. it's not about the price, it's about the blackmail we need to get rid of.
my fellow citizens! thank you, mr saudargas, for a very well-written report! we need the energy union more than ever. it will not only allow for the free flow of resources between member states, but also increase our competitiveness and help to build a common policy towards our suppliers. more than half of europe's energy needs are imported. a large proportion of imports are from one supplier from russia. the putin regime is known to use energy issues to exert political pressure on its customers. we have seen this in the baltic states, in ukraine and in other countries of the european union. that is why we in the european union need a diversification of energy resources. we must open up new markets, we must improve relations with the countries of central asia, with azerbaijan. it is absurd that turkmenistan, for example, is forced to sell its gas to russia, which then sells the same gas to us at a much higher price. a direct gas line is required. if russia replaces the postponed south stream with the turkish stream, well, then we will experience it, and it will happen. the construction of interconnectors is urgently needed to break the energy isolation of certain countries, including my own country, latvia. diversification of energy sources is also important. we're not gonna denigrate the gas. an efficient energy and security policy will be in everyone's interest. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i supported the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. clearly, climate change is happening and countries need to agree on measures to mitigate its negative effects. the main challenge is to reduce co2 emissions from the greenhouse effect. countries that have committed to a specific emissions reduction target have ratified the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. unfortunately, not all countries have done so, such as the united states, which is one of the biggest producers of waste. the european union emits only about 10% of all global co2 emissions. the eu countries alone will not prevent negative climate change, so the eu must put pressure on other countries around the world to set the same goals as we do, because the fight against climate change is a shared responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol, which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases, is among the most important documents in the world. i voted today, along with my colleagues (584 members in total), in favour of the amendment to the protocol which will improve the situation of global warming on our planet.
in writing. ‒ iceland's participation in the second stage of the kyoto protocol implementations will benefit the global state of the atmosphere and the reduction of carbon monoxide emissions. i am satisfied that i voted in favour. i am also glad that 626 other members of parliament have approved the report. such unanimity among members is not common.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of croatia to the eu, the question of integrating this country into the international system of mutual assistance in criminal matters is raised. i voted yes. although it is a rather formal decision, it is necessary.
in writing. ‒ croatia is the youngest eu member and must join the international convention on the fight against corruption among senior officials. this is very important for preserving the political culture and public image of power in the eu. i voted yes.
mr president, i voted against this report. it says that the eu targeted measures are not directed against the russian people but against certain individuals and enterprises, but the figures say the opposite. sanctions against russia have led to a dramatic split between the peoples of europe and russia. public opinion polls show that as a result of the sanctions, 59% of the russian population have a negative or very negative opinion of the eu, but the approval rating of vladimir putin has risen to 86%. this 86% is not certain individuals, they are the nation, and the authors and supporters of this resolution enforcing political and economic confrontation between the european union and russia must realise that their actions could lead to an apocalyptical clash of two closely-related civilisations on the european continent.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european union and russia could have common objectives, such as fighting the islamic state in iraq, syria and libya. the cooperation between the united states, russia and european countries in afghanistan is an example. it was a unique operation and a rare case because all these countries had an interest in stability in afghanistan and all parties actively cooperated towards this goal. for example, russia allowed american cargo planes to fly over its territory and use the ulyanovsk base, and supported the establishment of a us base in kyrgyzstan. both then and now, there is an active exchange of intelligence between intelligence services, which makes it possible to combat terrorists and radical groups more effectively. my fellow citizens! the fight against such a dangerous enemy as the islamic state cannot be successful without russia's participation. yes, there are conflicts and problems between the west and russia that we need to talk about, but we also have more important tasks that we can only solve together, only by working together. this time i voted against the landsberg report. thank you.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on a report on eu-russia relations. the current geopolitical situation in the world and in particular in our eastern neighbour, ukraine, poses security threats to the eu as a whole. following russia's illegal annexation of crimea, sanctions were introduced to stop and limit the aggressor's activities in the eu's neighbour. europe was anxiously waiting and hoping that the minsk agreements reached in february would be respected and that any hostilities in ukraine would be stopped. it is clear that russia is not respecting this agreement and is maintaining tensions in eu-russia relations. i voted for this report because russia must respect international law and fully implement the minsk agreements in order for the eu to be ready to resume a dialogue of common interest with moscow. the report also stresses that cooperation could be resumed if russia respects the sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea. the eu must be clear about the current state of eu-russia relations and make it clear to the russian government that it will not allow further attempts by russia to change european borders by force.
in writing. - the report is terrible, the rapporteur is terrible. nothing to add. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr gabrielius landsbergis on relations between the european union and russia. in the light of the minsk agreements, the g7 conclusions and the un general assembly resolutions, i support the european union's position that any resumption of cooperation with russia is only possible if russia fulfils its international and legal obligations, including the cessation of direct and indirect military involvement in the conflict in ukraine, violations of georgia's territorial integrity and the annexation of crimea. i also support the position expressed in the resolution that, without russia changing its behaviour, the european union must critically review existing cooperation, as it is not likely to be considered a strategic partner at the moment. it is essential that the resumption of cooperation with russia can be facilitated not only by respecting the inviolability of national borders, but also by respecting human rights, the rule of law, international diplomacy and trade principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on a european energy security strategy, which the commission should take into account when drafting legislation in this area. the report's objective and main focus was to end the european union's energy dependence on russia, which was defined as an unreliable trading partner. the report also stresses the need to use the energy resources available in the member states and to invest in energy savings. unfortunately, the left in the european parliament chose to act destructively and tabled a huge number of amendments, which lost the main thrust of the report - the achievement of energy security. the final result was that there were not enough votes to adopt the report.
in writing. ‒ the basic idea was a good one: to ensure stability in the eu's energy performance in the face of constantly growing energy consumption. many positive ingredients: green energy, supplies that will bring prices down for eu consumers... but, as is often the case, they ended up adding expressions relating to anti-russian policy, such as defining russia as an unstable supplier of energy resources to the eu (i voted against that amendment). it is logical that it should have been rejected by the european parliament by 315 votes against, 277 in favour and 11 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a european energy security strategy. although the european union has made progress in strengthening its energy security, europe still imports most of its energy resources. moreover, exporting countries are often located in geopolitically unstable regions or energy markets are used for politically motivated purposes. i believe that energy security also implies political independence. i therefore support a resolution which promotes this kind of independence, both by optimising energy consumption in general and by emphasising the importance and availability of renewable energy sources, thus implementing a sustainable energy policy and european economic development. at the same time, it is important to ensure that energy savings are actually linked to the legislation in place and not due to the economic pace and thus the decline in energy demand in europe. i would like to point out that despite the vote in favour, in solidarity with the other members of the ecr group, i am cautious about the co2 emissions deduction.
in writing. ‒ the resolution was initiated by the popular, green and communist. the social democrats are not participating. my group voted against it, and so did i. the resolution was adopted by 448 votes in favour, 197 against and 53 abstentions.
in writing. ‒ the situation in hungary is very unfavourable for the socialists and democrats. the attempts by prime minister viktor orbán to reinstate capital punishment, the restrictions on press freedom, the persecution of politicians who are not members of the prime minister's party - all of this brings to mind the insane situation in latvia. i disapprove of it. i voted in favour of the document because our proposals were respected when the final amendments were voted.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the motion for a resolution on turkey's 2014 progress report. the report notes that the eu-turkey customs union has led to a more than four-fold increase in bilateral trade, increasing the well-being of the people of the eu and turkey. this shows that turkey could be a stable strategic partner for the eu if it continues to implement democratic reforms and moves closer to eu values. i voted in favour because i believe that turkey has an important role to play as a strategic partner of the eu in the field of eu energy security and also as a nato member. it is also important that turkey and the eu continue their dialogue on counter-terrorism issues in a way that the external security policies of both sides complement each other.
in writing. ‒ although i was prepared to vote in favour of the resolution and the report, i voted against. i think that when we talk about turkey, it is essential to recognize the fact of the armenian genocide. of course, the present generation cannot be blamed for the crimes of the ottoman empire. but the idea of forgetting how they took the lives of 1.5 million people just because they were armenians leaves me speechless. unfortunately, the rapporteur, kati piri, did not reflect this in her report. nor can the interests of the republic of cyprus be ignored when it comes to northern cyprus, which is under the control of turkish troops. i supported my cypriot colleagues from the socialist and democratic group, costas mavrides and demetris papadakis. i voted with them.
in writing. ‒ while the progress report on turkey could have been more balanced and constructive this year, it is crucial that, despite the many disagreements among members of the european parliament, the resolution still refers to the official opening of chapters 23 (judiciary and fundamental rights) and 24 (justice freedom and security) as important steps to promote truly effective reforms in turkey. this is something i strongly support. equally, it is very important that the progress report on turkey states strong support for the reunification of cyprus. this could be one of the rare opportunities to make history and find a solution on the reunification of cyprus supported by all parties involved. it is a responsibility of the european parliament to support this process.
mr president, i think that this report is very timely and should also give rise to some action in the relevant institutions in the european union and, i would say, also in nato. so this is our goal. i see this report as touching on three vital issues as far as the black sea is concerned because, after the annexation and occupation (or vice versa: the occupation and annexation) of crimea, russia is threatening to turn the international waters of the black sea into its internal sea. we should see this problem in the context of all those recent aggressive activities of russia in the baltic sea as well as in the arctic, and i can see the problem from an economic, political and also humanitarian perspective. politically and militarily we have not experienced such a challenge for a long time, and it is very interesting for me to see some on the right or far right or far left actually living in an illusion or disinformation about nato expanding. if the free breath of my nation, the free will of my nation to join the european union and nato means aggression towards russia, should these nations simply die or not breathe? i do not accept such arguments, so from that perspective we are in an extremely difficult situation and we should act. so how can we act? i think that there must be a common approach between the european union and nato to safeguard our basic security interests in the black sea. democracy cannot be defended only by speeches if those speeches are just hot air without anything behind them. secondly, we must also ensure that there is no danger for energy pipelines, as has been seen, for instance, also in the baltic region. and from a humanitarian perspective, let us remember what we can do for those poor crimean tatars in the occupied territories.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. perhaps it is worth talking not only about the negative things but about the possible and existing cooperation between the black sea countries. if nations spend money only on armaments, they may lack the money to solve many other, more important problems. spending money on military purposes is the price that countries and their societies pay for not trusting outsiders. the logical question and conclusion is that in order to build trust and save money, dialogue and common objectives must be established. what might they be? what might these projects be? for example, the fight against illegal immigration, environmental projects, business-citizen cooperation. if we invest effort, time, money in this direction, the returns will be much greater than having a competition for who will produce and buy more military equipment or build a bigger army. weapons and armies cannot buy security, trust and prosperity. quite the opposite. it's going in the opposite direction. as the russian writer anton chekhov said, "if you put a gun to a wall, it will go off at some point". thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president! dear colleagues! we all know that major sporting events, and sport in general, are not just the focus of sports fans. we know that sport and major sporting events have a significant potential to make a significant contribution to the protection and promotion of human rights. the international community must therefore use this opportunity to put forward demands to improve the human rights situation in countries wishing to host prestigious international sporting events. i am absolutely convinced that we must not allow the world's authoritarian regimes to use major sporting events to consolidate their power and 'discourage colour', especially when these sporting events bear the name of europe. europe is not just a certain geography, it is also a set of values - human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law. it is therefore ironic, to say the least, that the first european games are taking place in a country with the lowest level of democratic civil liberties of any member state of the council of europe, in a country where the office of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe is being forced to close a week before the games. i am convinced that european leaders should also ask themselves what their attitude is towards the world cup in a country that kills political opponents and has illegally annexed the territory of another european country by force. in the meantime, i would like to use this platform to send a message to the political prisoners in azerbaijan. you know, the fact that the european games are being held in baku doesn't mean that europe has forgotten you and betrayed you. he was also the first to be arrested in connection with the alleged violation of the right to freedom of expression and to be detained in the framework of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty). you are not forgotten, you are in our minds and hearts. thank you!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution as a whole because the document does not encourage dialogue and a peaceful path to the region. i also voted against paragraph 7 concerning the 'mistral' ships, i voted against paragraph 12 concerning 'russian separatists in eastern ukraine', i abstained on the second part of paragraph 15, in a split vote, i abstained on the third and fourth parts of paragraph 16 (in a split vote), i abstained on paragraph 21, in a split vote, in the second part (on the persecution of the crimean tatars for their position on the territorial integrity of ukraine), i abstained on all the issues concerning the build-up of nato forces in the black sea region. none of this is going to increase security and trust between countries. but, again, on the whole, i could not support this resolution, i voted against it. unfortunately, there were only 183 of them today, but 356 were for, and it passed.
in writing. ‒ when sport becomes a giant corruption scheme, it is no longer a sport. i voted yes because all these cases should be condemned by fifa.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. we live in this house in clichés. we say things like, "now is not the time for words, now is the time for action". but what is our job? our job is to create the conditions for the economic growth that we all want to see. and this european fund for strategic investments is actually one of our notable works. what have we done? we take a small part of the european union budget to act as a guarantee that private investment is not put into the accounts, but is put into the economy to create jobs. we have done our job. now there's a question and a hope that the private sector will seize the opportunity, make money and create the jobs that we as legislators want. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ‒ it has become fashionable in the european parliament to accept all requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. our group shares this view: the independent judiciary will establish the truth. the committee responsible recommended lifting the immunity after weighing all the pros and cons. that is why i voted to withdraw the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ it has become fashionable in the european parliament to accept all requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. our group shares this view. that is why i voted to withdraw the immunity of mr udo voigt.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary on the european fund for strategic investments regulation because the european union needs fresh investment to restore economic growth. the new fund will generate some €315 billion of investment in the economies of the eu countries. the fund will be administered by the european investment bank (eib), which will invest €5 billion, and the european union €16. this financing serves as a guarantee to reduce the risk for private investors, thus significantly increasing the attractiveness of the projects in the eyes of investors. the projects are developed by the entrepreneurs and will be evaluated by the eib and the decision on the granting of the guarantee. the european commission estimates that the fund will create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs. investment projects may also be submitted by latvian entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments has an important role to play - using this mechanism now, after the crisis in the european union, it is possible to get the economy going and develop those branches of the eu that need special, future-oriented investments. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which asks the commission to examine the reasons why the approval or implementation of many important eu projects is delayed. it is the duty of the european commission to explain publicly to the citizens of europe the reasons for this delay. the report also stresses the importance of social dialogue, which is more necessary than ever in my country, latvia. today, the participants in the social dialogue are the weak point, the organs of power do not listen to them. this report can turn the tide at european level, put it in its place and put it on the right track. the eu globalisation fund is a relevant mechanism for social dialogue. its aim is to help jobseekers, wage-earners, disadvantaged by major structural changes. the latvian economy is vitally dependent on the changes and fluctuations in the global economy. our aim is to strengthen this mechanism. i voted yes.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. today, ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the report by my colleague, mrs pervenche berès, and on what is happening in greece and in the management of the eurozone crisis. this is what my country latvia experienced in 2009-2011. at the time, the huge crisis was spreading throughout eastern europe, including latvia. but the crisis has not been overcome, and the fact that latvia has emerged from it is not thanks to the government or the european commission, but only thanks to the latvian people. the latvian government at that time ruthlessly closed hospitals, reduced the salaries of police officers, teachers, and took 10% of pensioners' pensions. the greeks may simply not allow themselves to be treated in this way as a people of the south, but that does not mean that we - the european parliament - should not look for new and better models of governance. the other way is not just a compromise between all parties involved. that is why i supported the berès report, because it is a compromise product, and that is why i voted in favour. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament's plenary session on a resolution on the revision of the economic governance system. this report assesses the management of the eu's economic policies, which includes closer coordination of economic policies between the eu member states, legislation to limit excessive national deficits and the overall strengthening of economic and monetary union. in this report, the european parliament stresses the need for a functioning economic and monetary union, which means closer economic convergence between the euro area countries, greater coordination of structural reforms and possibly even a shift of some tax revenues to the new euro area budget. the convergence of euro-zone countries will be a process that will bring significant benefits to latvia and its people; one of the benefits will be the removal of remaining barriers to the single market, thus creating additional opportunities for latvian businesses.
in writing. ‒ i am absolutely not in favour of the populism that the far-right meps have shown during the debate. using the difficulties of the greek people to boost your rating is completely unacceptable. the report by mr berès is a comprehensive one and the result of a political compromise. i voted yes.
for the ecr group madam prime minister, president of the commission! i have the honour, on behalf of my group, to thank the prime minister of latvia for her excellent work, and mr weber actually took the words right out of my mouth that the first three rows here are women. this presidency was successful precisely because latvia, as you can see, has gender inequality, and that is why this success is what it is. i would also like to say that my colleague said a lot of very good things about the cultural programme and many other very technical and important things, which showed that the land, which is also my land and which has these beautiful colours on its flag, is in fact very, very important for the diversity of europe. the latvian presidency has achieved significant progress in a number of aspects of the single market, which of course is a crucial political flagship for the ecr group, like the telecommunications package, which can move forward the whole digital agenda. it is the same for data protection issues and also in other fields of the single market, like the railway package in the transport sector, and moves towards the energy union. so these achievements are moving europe in a new direction, although the efsi stands a little aside from this. why? in my opinion, if mr juncker promises to do something in the six months, then it will be done, whichever presidency it is, or it would be no presidency at all. at the same time, i think the juncker plan brings us new challenges. to be honest, i would not want to experience so-called geographical neutrality towards investment turning into a geographical concentration of projects in highreturn places. but the real priority and the milestone of the latvian presidency was the eastern partnership summit. did it really deliver? ukrainians and georgians, who chose a risky way to move to a western future, are disappointed. they feel left in the other sphere of influence. we have to admit that, if the majority of europeans are not ready to have a heightened confrontation with russia, then perhaps we have to choose slightly different priorities if we cannot help those new democracies like ukraine and georgia. ending with the greek deal, i agree that this has to be complex. it is not a simple idea, as the president of the commission has said. but for latvians, after the austerity programme, it is very important that it should be a fair deal.
in writing.– today the latvian prime minister concludes the country’s first presidency of the eu council. over the past six months, many priorities have been in the spotlight: the european fund for strategic investments, energy policy, the data protection regulation, the eastern partnership, roaming charges, immigration issues. also developments in ukraine and russia, terrorism, and the financial crisis in greece. the latvian presidency has proven to be highly efficient and pragmatic. during the past months, they have concluded very difficult negotiations on juncker’s investment package, the market stability reserve, iluc (indirect land use change) and the telecoms single market regulation. this would not have been possible without the dedicated, well prepared and professional approach of the latvian presidency. it has been a very valuable experience for latvia. i am proud of my country and its people for such a successful performance.
madam president, ttip is a unique chance to proactively shape european sustainable economic development and increase our geopolitical stability by shaping our continents – the united states and europe – which are drifting apart. ttip will also help small enterprises, increase our exports, create jobs and help to decrease poverty. it will actually strengthen our global values, and ttip should also be concluded because exactly like this we can defend our national interests of europe. ttip should not and will not solve all our interests, and therefore it should not be treated as such. and because of this, i am also telling the opponents of ttip or isds that if you want to be respected, please do not use your arguments which are based on lies or on wrong data, because otherwise it is very difficult to earn respect. we can eternally collect treaties or referendums saying that people are against something, but in the recent referendum on greece we could see that maybe only 5% really understood what they were voting for. as a comparison, i would say that in my country, latvia, which is poorer than greece, i could easily make a referendum in the autumn not to lend money to somebody who is not respecting the rules. we shall respect the rules and we shall conclude such agreements if you really want to make a better life for our continent. finally, i hope that political games will not also decrease the chance to conclude agreements such as ceta just because we do not like americans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is said that the ostrich, a bird, when threatened, buries its head in the sand to hide the danger. and perhaps there are politicians, particularly on the far left and far right of this house, who, because they're afraid of globalization, are now trying to pretend that they can somehow, with willpower, easily prevent it. but what is the fact? the fact is, globalization is happening whether you like it or not. so what do we do? we should act in such a way that we europeans are the movers and shakers of globalisation, not the backers. and together with the united states, we control more than half of the world's gdp. this means that, by creating a strong transatlantic trade agreement, europe would not be the victim of any threats but would be the one to set the rules of the game. colleagues, let us support the creation of this treaty! thank you.
in writing. ‒ although the vote was secret, i confess that i voted in favour of the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. the stronger the european union's control bodies are, the stronger we all will be. the choice of a competent person for a responsible position is the most correct way for the development of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in line with my political party and my convictions: international trade, which has become so important today, must be developed in accordance with the strict rules and principles of the eu, whose effectiveness has been proven over the years.
in writing. ‒ cases where the price of a ship is artificially lowered cause damage to entire branches of the world economy. this report reinforces the new defence mechanisms, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is another case of eu territories collaborating with third countries. the report will open up new possibilities for the international fishing industry. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ it tells us that what is left of the resources has been used effectively. i support the honourable member's report and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the principle of solidarity is the basis of the eu. the use of the solidarity funds will improve the situation in romania, bulgaria and italy after the heavy rains. i voted yes.
in writing. - in the face of the force majeure we are all equal. today we are helping romania, bulgaria and italy, and tomorrow they will be helping us. i voted yes.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. i voted in favour of mr koch's report because i believe that the introduction of an integrated ticketing system is an important step towards creating a common transport system throughout the european union. this is particularly important for countries that are loosely connected to other eu countries. the use of innovative technologies will make public transport more efficient, cleaner and, in my view, will also help to develop the regions of the european union. the european union must do everything it can to promote this process of integration, and this report is another step in that direction. thank you.
in writing. ‒ unifying the documents of transport systems is a wonderful idea. sooner or later, we will all be travelling on the same tickets in the eu. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments must be used to a large extent to get the european economy moving. if not, the whole world will become greece. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in voting on this year's eu budget amendment to transfer funds from the cef instrument, the horizon 2020 programme and the iter project to the newly created european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the constraints are there because it effectively means that the funds used to finance this fund will be reduced to a portion of the grants for transport projects. although this does not significantly affect the cohesion countries, it also does not allow transport policy to count on this grant money. overall, the juncker plan will not help to level the playing field and living standards in the eu, as most of its projects will be implemented in western european countries with larger economies and populations. the esif envisages using blended finance private finance will be attracted, with lenders naturally interested in making profits as quickly and as much as possible. it is therefore logical that the funding will likely be invested more in larger projects in the large western european countries where it can generate profits. it must be recognised that the income gap between the large western european countries and the smaller ones, including eastern europe, will grow in the future, rather than level off. the commission notes that the cef was intended to finance transport infrastructure projects under the eu ten-t policy, which prioritised rail and inland waterway projects with cross-border connections and thus with a higher eu total added value. projects will be selected for efsi funding only on the basis of their economic return.
in writing. ‒ the waves of immigrants in the eu are going to increase. after the eu has fomented several wars, people are coming to europe to escape wars and hunger. of course, that requires more and more funding. i voted yes.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. i voted in favour of this report because the expiry of the milk quota system on 31 march 2015 coincided with the ban on imports of european milk products imposed by russia in august 2014. the baltic farmers were the most affected and, with the dramatic fall in milk purchase prices, latvian producers lost competitiveness. my dear colleagues, it is not about figures and graphs, but about specific families who may lose everything they have earned. and not just because of geopolitics, but because some officials didn't think their issue was important. this is a very important report and i would like to express my regret that all the measures taken so far have been delayed and insufficient. i believe that the commission has a duty to help the dairy farmers of the baltic states and other countries, including latvia, who have suffered from the sanctions war. thank you.
in writing. ‒ what quotas can we talk about when dairy companies are closing down one after another in eastern europe? i voted in favour because it will be an additional mechanism to help farmers in my country, latvia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i believe this report is very important because public-private partnerships can benefit the least developed countries, because ppps are an effective way to use european funds and to achieve other sustainable development goals. for example, reducing poverty. but we have to be careful because sometimes we try to help without considering the real needs of these countries, but only from our point of view. sometimes we europeans are willing to push a particular project because we think it's exactly what the people of that country need, and the state elite may also be unwilling to push it because they're interested in getting money, but the projects that are really needed will never get done. these aspects must certainly be taken into account in supporting public-private partnership projects, which i also implemented in my vote today. thank you.
in writing. ‒ it will be very difficult to make an effort and get the economy going without attracting private capital. outside the eu these mechanisms must work, setting an example of fruitful collaboration for many other countries. i voted yes. and i also voted against the alternative motion for a resolution, which was put forward by the communists.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector needs reforms and new forms of support in the eu. i voted yes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union, as a trading bloc, is in global competition, including with the united states of america. and the main condition of energy policy in the united states is to ensure that prices are as low as possible, whereas for us in europe our energy goal is to ensure that we emit as little co2 as possible. unfortunately, reducing co2 emissions has often meant higher energy prices, which makes it difficult for our industry to compete, including with the united states, because they simply have lower prices. so i have no doubt, colleagues, that it is important, and science has proven that humanity as such needs to reduce co2 emissions to reduce global warming. but we as politicians also have to think responsibly about the competitiveness of our european industry, because in order to reduce co2 we don't accidentally raise energy prices so high that our industry becomes uncompetitive. we must therefore be aware of the reasons for our industry, so that we do not stop exporting products and start exporting an industry which is not our aim. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the new employment guidelines proposed by the commission are, to our regret, weaker than the previous ones. therefore the rapporteur and her shadow rapporteurs had a very responsible task to work out more ambitious proposals for parliament’s position. the text approved by a large majority of the committee on employment and social affairs goes much further than the commission, and i want to congratulate laura agea for this. the commission does not provide any actions at the level of the european parliament – it is all up to the member states – and this matter was not mentioned in commissioner thyssen’s statement. parliament’s report calls for eu action towards an eu social protection floor. it calls for decent minimum wages across the eu and offers a number of other concrete proposals. so we hope very much that the council will take parliament’s input on board. nevertheless, the request for codecision in the guidelines included in this report is extremely relevant and reasonable.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would also like to thank my colleague mr koukan for his report, but i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that it has recently become apparent that the existing european neighbourhood policy is not able to respond adequately and quickly to rapidly changing circumstances. this is precisely why a differentiated approach and a policy tailored to the needs of each country are needed. i think we need to change our attitude. we work with peers, and sometimes our tone and attitude offends our partners. sometimes it is thought that this programme is only for our partners, but the european union is a charity. it's not like that. for example, who is more interested in cooperation on borders to stop illegal migrants and smuggling from entering the eu, us or them? cooperation on the ecological issue can we really expect our strong borders to protect us from an ecological disaster in a neighbouring country? i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the european neighbourhood policy should involve all neighbours, differentiating this relationship in terms of resources and other incentives. thank you.
the blue card issue. thank you very much, mr. kovatchev, for accepting my blue card! you spoke about frozen conflicts, but tell me, please, just honestly, do you have a recipe ready to go for how we can solve these frozen conflicts, including in georgia, the republic of piedmont and elsewhere, in an instant? thank you.
mr president, i voted against yesterday, because we need to find a balance between protecting sensitive interests and promoting the interests of the european union. i would like to stress that an ambitious agreement has potential benefit for both the eu and the usa, but some red lines were not negotiable, especially on workers’ conditions and health standards. the main red lines, from my point of view, are: no lowering of eu standards on consumer safety or conditions for workers; no hormone—treated beef on our plates; no genetically-modified organisms; no meat cleaned using chlorine; no reducing of data protection in ttip; no investor—state dispute system. it would be very dangerous to ignore the opinion of the european citizens in the process of the preparation of the agreement. the price of such an attitude may be very high. in 2012, the european parliament refused to give its consent to the conclusion of the anti—counterfeiting trade agreement. if the final product does not satisfy the european parliament, the result may be similar.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the eu-us trade agreement because it clearly sets out the ep's vision of what an agreement would be like in the world's largest free trade area. it must be ambitious and balanced, and the negotiation process must be transparent. it must also give eu businesses greater access to the us market for goods, services and public procurement, but it must not lower eu standards in data protection, food safety and other areas. it is important that this agreement creates an efficient, competitive economic environment and removes barriers to trade. i also support the creation of a new private arbitration system for investor-state dispute settlement, with publicly appointed judges and subject to transparency requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg for a resolution with the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the report provides recommendations to the european commission in the negotiation process for a trade agreement between the eu and the us. it is important to the european parliament that free access to the us market for goods and services is ensured. the european parliament also calls for the preservation of europe's high standards of environmental, food and data protection. i believe that this agreement will contribute to the latvian economy, because our exporting companies will find it easier to sell their goods and services in the usa. the negotiation process between the eu's negotiating mandate the european commission and the us representatives is still ongoing, but once it is concluded, meps will have to give their consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposals for the european commission to negotiate the establishment of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) with the united states. this type of agreement between the two most influential economies in the world plays a very important geopolitical role, because it will generally strengthen the value of the west and the development of the western economic model. however, given the russian embargo on eu food imports and the consequences of this embargo, the positive geopolitical features of such an agreement will also allow the agricultural sector to create a new market for its products, without compromising european standards. although there is disagreement in the european parliament on the mechanism to regulate investor and national disputes, i believe it is important to separate the idea of fair and transparent investor protection from the idea of possible lobbying by multinational corporations. in addition, many eu countries, including latvia, have already had experience with us corporate requirements. it is clear that the political forces in the european parliament, including those who support the greek referendum, are voting against this agreement, both on the far left and on the far right, led by marin le pen, who support free trade but do not support ttip. question: do they think the free market is only necessary to trade with their party's donors in russia?
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia in 2013 requires amendments to a number of eu basic treaties. the accession agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia amends the statute of croatia. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia in 2013 requires amendments to a number of eu basic treaties. the accession agreement with serbia amends the statute of croatia. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft resolution. india has twice the population of the eu: over a billion people. cooperation with india opens up new prospects in technology and science; india is the eu's most important partner and the horizons of such cooperation are widening every year.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution. although the faroe islands are a relatively small eu partner, in my view the eu must reach out to all corners of the world to make our planet a better place.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i supported this very important document because, in my view, the market stability mechanism is one of the most important instruments in climate change policy. this will help to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. but this mechanism requires serious adjustments. by automatically putting allowances into reserve when overproduction occurs and allowing them to be used when production is reduced, it will be possible to give this system a certain flexibility and avoid costly errors. our vote, ladies and gentlemen, is very important and it sends a positive signal ahead of the december talks on climate change in paris. thank you.
in writing. ‒ switzerland has been a de facto member of the eu for many years: cooperation with the eu has a long tradition and the confederation's relations with eu member states are exemplary. but we can do more for the good of every inhabitant of europe. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's ways of delivering growth and employment is through a more coordinated strategy and approach to employment development. this strategy and the member states' guidelines must be sustainable and able to keep pace with economic developments. in the future, the european union must ensure that the labour force in the member states is skilled and that unemployment falls across the union. at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for the final text of the report because i believe that the proposal for guidelines for the employment policies of the member states would have brought the eu closer to reducing unemployment. i think it is particularly important that the report highlights the initiatives to promote youth employment, which is a huge challenge in the eu, given that the statistics in this area in several member states are currently not very encouraging. however, i believe that the system of gender quotas in the workplace should be left to the member states and therefore i voted against the amendment to this report which envisages including the system of gender quotas in the workplace, although i am unequivocally in favour of gender equality and its promotion in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour with other 588 meps, because we have to help each worker in the eu. this story is very interesting. mobile chipset developer broadcom closed down all its activities in finland when its manufacturing was relocated to asia and the united states. the company made 568 workers redundant across finland, over 400 of whom live in the worst-hit region, northern ostrobothnia. the redundancies are part of a trend hitting the entire finnish electronics industry. now the eu resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund will finance coaching for 500 of the redundant workers, grants to start their own enterprises, and hiring incentives. the overall cost of the operations, co-financed by finland, is eur 2.2 million. my country – latvia – has to support our people the same way as finland does it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on the report on the green jobs initiative harnessing the job creation potential of the green economy. the european union is gradually moving towards developing and promoting a green and circular economy. the initiative emphasises and supports the need for highly qualified and professional workers in the green economy. this is a welcome development, but it is important not to forget the role of industry in promoting growth and sustainable employment. however, i voted against the report's point on the introduction of a financial transaction tax, as this would probably create higher prices for consumers. the introduction of such a tax may also create risks for the industry, rendering it uncompetitive and thus hampering growth. fair and healthy competition is the key to the growth of industrial sectors.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour. some regions in the eu are facing more challenges than others because of the geographical concentration of energy- and resource-intensive and polluting industries, or of higher levels of poverty or unemployment. that is why we have to support a green economy – opportunities for the labour market in the eu.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion and avoidance affect both developing countries and eu member states. however, this problem is particularly acute in developing countries, where national administrative structures are too weak to ensure effective and fair tax collection for a variety of reasons. corruption and tax evasion and the resulting illicit proceeds can serve to finance terrorism and criminal activities. it is particularly important to increase the funding that developing country governments desperately need to ensure that their citizens have access to basic services such as education and healthcare. it should also be borne in mind that political instability and technical constraints, such as a lack of human resources, often prevent effective tax collection. the resolution also calls on the european commission to support developing countries in taking measures to strengthen their tax administration. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the eu and its member states should make multinationals report their financial performance, tax details, assets and employee numbers country by country, so as to help fight tax evasion and illicit money flows in developing countries. we must call on eu financial institutions to ensure that companies receiving eu support do not ‘participate’ in tax evasion. the commission must put forward an ambitious action plan to support developing countries in fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance and in setting up fair, well-balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i wanted to say that i voted in favour of this because, ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid the principle of 'take, make, consume and throw away'. with a circular economy, we will save resources, create new jobs, support the introduction of new technologies. this is very important and i therefore support the objectives set out in what i believe to be the strategic report. i think the target of 30% resource efficiency by 2030 is realistic and achievable. the goal has been set, and now, colleagues, we must begin to realize it. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the european union's economy is gradually recovering from the financial crisis and virtually all member states are back on the growth path. however, there are factors that are holding back this acceleration. companies need capital to grow. development loans are mainly available from banks, which are not always willing to take on additional risk and refuse to lend. in this case, the alternative for the company is to borrow on the financial markets, but these are not sufficiently developed in the eu, especially in new or small member states. the european commission has therefore proposed the creation of a capital markets union to facilitate the functioning of financial markets in the eu and to remove existing barriers between countries, which could lead to a reduction in the cost of capital. the capital markets union could provide latvian companies with additional opportunities to attract financing for development, which is why i voted in favour of a resolution on the creation of a capital markets union at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
in writing. - more than 100,000 people have become refugees in yemen. more than 130,000 people have been killed. this is a terrible situation. i voted for the report.
in writing. - i voted for, although i was against the amendment that says that all migrants are potential terrorists. this is not true of people who flee war themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted for because i believe that the european neighbourhood policy should involve all the eu's neighbours, differentiating this relationship in terms of both resources and other incentives.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i voted in favour because the fragmented copyright protection systems in the european countries make it very difficult to create a single european market. 28 countries, 28 different sets of copyright laws, 28 different court systems with their own 28 procedural aspects. colleagues, most entrepreneurs who want to work throughout the european union have to give up their ambitions just to think about the high costs that will be required to cover all the copyright claims and fees. in particular, the harmonisation of copyright in the european union is relevant to the creation of a digital single market. time is short, and it takes courage and energy to activate this process. at the same time, i would not want harmonisation to be accompanied by new, stringent requirements that make it harder for businesses to operate and further restrict the rights of european citizens. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the digital age is taking a turn, with more and more creative content being published online and more and more demand for it from consumers. the european commission already gave clear signals before the digital single market strategy was presented that copyright needs to be modernised and harmonised in the eu market. clear and transparent copyright regulation is very important for copyright users, as transparent regulation would enhance the further development of creativity and online platforms; it would also ensure that copyright holders receive the remuneration they deserve. copyright reform is an important component of the digital single market. however, i voted against paragraph 46 of the report, which severely restricts the use of works, photographs and videos that are already permanently physically available in public places, the so-called 'freedoms of the press'. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because i believe that legislation must keep pace with the development of digital technologies.
in writing. although digital technologies are by nature borderless, internet users in europe face a number of challenges, including different copyright requirements. the main problem faced daily by millions of internet users, including in latvia, in relation to online purchases and access to audiovisual and cultural products is geo-blocking, or restricting internet content based on the customer's location. for example, many have encountered situations where it is not possible to watch selected latvian tv programmes or youtube videos while abroad, while foreign tv channels or works by authors and performers are not available in latvia. i believe that copyright rules need to be made simpler and clearer, by removing excessive restrictions on access to digital content and by ensuring that web content and services are equally accessible in all eu countries. i therefore voted in favour of the position set out in the report on uniform rules for the crossborder availability of protected content. the eu's single rules on crossborder access to content will benefit not only consumers but also authors and performers, who will have wider market opportunities for the distribution of their works. of course, legislation should ensure that authors and performers receive equal fair remuneration in both digital and analogue environments.
in writing. - i was among the 395 meps who voted in favour of this report. we need to use the fund's capacity more actively to develop genuine democracy both within and beyond the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution tabled by several political groups in the ep. i'm the boss.
in writing. - it is a terrible tragedy, the consequences of which we will feel for a long time. many slaughterhouse victims are still not properly fed after 20 years. i voted for the report.
mr president! i think it is not right to rush things and adopt a resolution now, especially when the european union is facing such a huge refugee crisis, and i think that this resolution can be debated and adopted in the next plenary session.
in writing. ‒ a paradoxical situation forced labour sometimes exists in eu countries too. it is forbidden because it cannot be otherwise than a form of slavery. i voted in favour because the implementation of the document will allow the european union to set an example to the rest of the world of what the relationship between employee and employer should really be. i need help!
in writing. ‒ i like the practice in the european parliament that, even if there is only suspicion, a member has to go before the judicial system. i voted for you because i'm confident themis can handle it.
in writing. ‒ incorrect application or even incorrect treatment of legislation can lead to trade difficulties. the agricultural aspect is particularly important in the context of the russian counter-sanctions, as european and latvian farmers have to seek new markets, including foreign ones, and cannot allow farms to go bankrupt. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ there is a known duplicity here you can kill deer but you cannot sell products and food from them. if we're going to save nature, we should ban deer hunting. if you can't sell them, why kill them? the overall text is balanced, but much remains to be done in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i also voted against this important document because i believe that cloning is a subject which does not answer all the questions. what i think is the most dangerous aspect of this sector is that we now have to stop, as the report says, the import of clones into the european union and the import of the technology that allows clones to be produced. why do we have to do this, colleagues? because we cannot risk our lives as citizens of the european union, and until scientists have given us the answers to all the questions, we cannot continue to move forward in this field without the advice of scientists. but overall i supported this report and i believe it is timely and extremely important for the european union. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. we know that human rights are a cornerstone of the european union. the european charter of fundamental rights is to become the 'bible' of the european union. i am pleased that the document in question, which i supported, deals with sanctions against countries that are members of the european union and that commit serious human rights violations. because what happens in a given moment? as a member of the foreign affairs committee, i know that we in parliament often warn other countries about human rights violations, and at the same time other countries say to us: 'what is happening with you in the european union?' there is really no mechanism of control or influence that could force a member state of the european union to comply with human rights if it wanted to. i am extremely sorry that the majority of members did not support paragraph 167, which deals with the right to vote for stateless persons, because this is an extremely topical issue for my country latvia. it's about the underage, but that's still to come. thank you.
in writing. at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted against a resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the text of the resolution is, in my view, unacceptable for a number of reasons, but the main one was the call to allow persons with disabilities to vote in elections. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. as a result, almost half of the members present were forced to vote against such an important report.
in writing. ‒ this year’s ‘report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu’ again was used by political groups on the left side to serve their political objectives, instead of actually assessing fundamental rights situation in the eu ms. therefore i had no choice than to vote against the report. in all eu ms there are national and european courts which deal with fundamental rights issues. i am against the idea of creating new fundamental rights mechanisms, another layer of bureaucracy, which would stand above the judicial systems of the eu ms for the sake of political gains. furthermore, already today there are several mechanisms in place aimed at safeguarding fundamental rights across the union, which should be used and correctly implemented.
the commission has also received comments from the applicant. it seems that the european parliament has elected the european commission for 5 years after hearing the european commissioners and that's it. but no. this experience should be used for interinstitutional dialogue and for improving cooperation between the institutions. i voted for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i voted today, along with several members, in favour of the report by marietje schaake. i believe that this is extremely timely and important for the european union as a whole. because what happens now? often, after each terrorist attack, we hear talk of giving more powers to the special services. often, the special services themselves demand more power in the national parliament for each member state. but it is also not uncommon for the secret services to use this power not only to protect eu citizens from terrorists but also to target eu citizens. there are many examples of this, and we must fight against it. unfortunately, my country latvia is totally sick with the scourge of the special services, and i think this report is a very good new policy for the scourge of the special services and at the same time a vector to protect the citizens of the european union. i voted yes. thank you.
in writing. - together with my political group, i voted in favour of all our amendments.
mr president, colleagues! i supported this extremely important document because family businesses need to be supported and this is, in my view, the european commission's number one task to provide support not only financially but also informatively, that is to say, to disseminate information on how to develop family businesses. in my country - latvia - family businesses make up a large part of the gdp and make a very important contribution to the fight against unemployment. of course, the main, if not the most important, problem is funding. because it should be easier for people who want to continue and develop a business with their family members, with the whole family involved. and there should be a single body in the european union that would be responsible for providing precisely this information and that could be contacted to find out how to set up this business. and finally, the family business is a great guarantor of the greatest value to the family, which is when the father works together with the son and they all work together with the wife or the mother. this means that not only will the company flourish, but the family will also be strong and wealthy. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted for because i believe that at this moment the state must not only create jobs, but also create the conditions in europe for any young person interested to develop a business. this requires that education systems in europe are up to date and able to adapt quickly to the rapidly changing realities of life. i am sure that this document will help more young people in europe to find their place in their company.
in writing. ‒ europe, after centuries of inhabited history, is very rich in cultural and historical heritage. today, every country protects what it can or sometimes doesn't protect at all. a common concept will help preserve and pass on to future generations our masterpieces. i need help!
in writing. ‒ water privatisation must not be allowed, conditions must not be created where people lack water. the document will help to keep water available for everyone and will also help to solve water supply problems in certain areas of the eu. i'm through.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i also want to congratulate eduard kukan for the report, which – pointing out that the 2012 european year succeeded in its goal of mobilising the relevant actors around the topic – considers that these initiatives need to be followed now by concrete action. the high unemployment among people over the age of 50 is an extremely worrying phenomenon. yes, commissioner thyssen, i agree that the employment rate for elderly people has risen somewhat but it is not yet satisfactory, and therefore we call on the commission to address the problem of reintegrating dismissed middle-aged workers, using the new european financial instruments. i also agree that linking a retirement age to average life expectancy only is the wrong approach. the actual unemployment rates among the population of pre-retirement age should be taken into account before changing the mandatory retirement age.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the fact that we use the fine words of humanity and solidarity so intensely often indicates a weakness and a failure of the institutions, which in this case could lead to the weakening of europe. is it that when we have a chaotic reception of illegal immigrants, the absolute majority of whom are men, that it will cover up the children being stuck in boats that are overrun by border guards? as for the distribution of refugees at the budapest station, who can imagine a forced quota distribution these refugees will go to munich to germany, and these refugees will go by bus to latvia? and there are threats of depletion of the schengen area if the quotas are not enforced. and what will happen to refugees who have been granted refugee status in latvia and who still want to go to germany or sweden? we're gonna put border control back in so they can't do that? the forced distribution is not really satisfying to those who are refugees, nor to those who are receiving them, but it is creating a public scepticism about the european project as such. so let's do what's important and forget about what's popular, even though we're politicians. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted for because i didn't understand why the people's party group was only against the name change. as the peace process unfolds, there will also be two states in the middle east. so it is perfectly logical to change the name of the european parliament's delegation.
in writing. ‒ fishing in this region has long been a strong economic link between the eu and guinea-bissau. i need help!
in writing. - good report, i voted for it!
in writing. ‒ the agreement will help to continue economic cooperation between the eu and cape verde. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour with my political group.
in writing. ‒ cooperation with madagascar must go ahead, i voted in favour.
in writing. - a somewhat technical amendment, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ to some extent, this amendment is technical, because the wto should be there. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ there are countries in the european union which have not yet acceded to the convention, although they are eu member states. i voted for being in a band.
my fellow citizens! i voted for this extremely important decision and i will explain why. the refugee issue is a matter of common european union values and indeed of solidarity. i am ashamed to say that colleagues from my country who were elected in other political groups voted against. we, latvia, as a new member of the european union, we cannot be just consumers of funds from the eu's general budget. just think, from 2009 to 2013, my country latvia received 34 million euros in refugee-related programs, and will receive another 29 million by 2020. i am really ashamed that we want to take eu funds with one hand and cannot extend the other hand - the hand of solidarity - to those people who are really in a terrible situation. the european union cannot exist by standing still. it needs to be developed, and, i repeat, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i believe that the member states of the european union should help the eu countries affected by the migrant crisis, which are not able to cope with the influx of thousands of migrants on their own, but given that the report also envisages the introduction of a permanent, mandatory resettlement mechanism throughout the eu, i abstained in the vote in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on the report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the eu needs a plan for the reception of refugees based on solidarity and voluntary principles, rather than mandatory, automatic quotas for migrants. nor does the report mention how the eu's external border will be strengthened to stem the uncontrolled flow of refugees and avoid a future migrant crisis.
in writing. ‒ there are three main reasons for my decision to abstain on the vote on ‘establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece’. first of all, the european commission and the council has already moved on with the plan to relocate asylums seekers from italy and greece, therefore there is no actual purpose for this report. second, the focus of this report is on relocation and distribution of the asylum seekers among the eu ms, instead of looking for ways to deal with root causes and strengthening the eu external borders. third, i do not think that binding and obligatory quotas which are forced upon eu ms can encourage any solidarity as it ignores specific national conditions. latvia has suffered from large uncontrolled immigration during the soviet occupation, for which the consequences are still visible today. it is my strong belief that ms should be encouraged to show greater solidarity through voluntary means not be a binding quota system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i also supported this extremely important and timely decision, because, as several colleagues have already mentioned in connection with this report, more than 70% of the population of the european union lives in cities. the city is a unique culture, a unique place where industrial areas meet cultural heritage that has been present in the european union for decades and centuries. and the vision of urban development, ladies and gentlemen, must be coordinated at the level of the european union. it is not mandatory for the member states or municipalities, but i think it is extremely important. i believe that the involvement of local authorities is essential in developing a viable common strategy. and here we have to narrow the gap that we see between, for example, the national level of government and the municipality, the city government. i repeat, i voted in favour.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, during the summer, members of the delegation for relations with belarus made a historic visit to our eastern neighbour. the last official visit occurred more than 12 years ago. one can hope that it has indeed been viewed as a signal on the part of the european parliament and the european union as a whole that we are finally ready to pursue closer and stronger ties with the republic of belarus. likewise, the recent pardons of opposition figures in belarus a few weeks ago can also be viewed as a signal, this time on the part of our neighbours, that they, too, are ready and willing to overcome existing difficulties and advance further on the path of better mutual understanding and cooperation. we acknowledge the fact that these pardons were granted, not only two months following the delegation’s visit, but also two months before the upcoming general election in the republic of belarus. in this context, such a step could provide grounds for a more common position with regard to the level of democratic development in the republic of belarus, thereby lessening the degree of any misunderstanding in the wake of the elections. as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with belarus i am very happy about this step, because it clearly shows the willingness of the belarusian leadership to both reconcile its differences with the european union and to gradually move towards closer cooperation. finally, this step is also very important to me as an inhabitant of a neighbouring country and eu member state, latvia. while the economic and inter-societal aspects of the latvian-belarusian relationships are already strongly developed and are gradually advanced further and further, this release could provide a powerful stimulus for a closer political dialogue as well. during the last year, especially following the close engagement of the republic of belarus and the conclusion and implementation of the minsk protocols, eu-belarus relations have finally started to warm up. in recent decades, most, if not all, of these warm-ups, regretfully, have never been long term. just as a long winter is always followed by a spring, one can hope that soon afterwards it might progress to summer. unlike with nature, however, we as humans have all the necessary instruments to achieve a lasting long-term partnership with our belarusian neighbours. of course, while part of the responsibility for the shape our relations took almost 20 years ago lies with the belarusian leadership, it was never a good idea to isolate minsk, thus only alienating them further. so once again, please allow me to repeat myself: let these recent pardons mark the road towards a long-lasting partnership between the european union and the republic of belarus for decades to come.
blue-card answer.– this year i visited minsk twice, and that is why i welcome with particular feeling the release of political prisoners in belarus, as well as belarus’s involvement in attempts to stop russia’s hybrid war against ukraine. these steps, along with a fair campaign and fair elections, should lead to an upgrade of the dialogue between the eu and belarus. if the osce observers give a positive assessment of the presidential elections, the eu should review its sanctions. i am not so naive as to believe that president lukashenko has been taking these steps out of a sudden change of heart. it is entirely possible that it is just a cold, political calculation. it is a fact that belarus continues to depend economically on russia’s subsidies, president lukashenko is willing to enhance military cooperation with russia, possibly for the sake of avoiding any unpleasant hybrid surprises for belarus. but we should also listen to those pro-european actors in belarusian society who encourage the european institutions to give positive feedback to the recent developments in belarus and who say that the eu should interact more with belarusian society at large through education, technical cooperation exchanges and so on, rather than just hoping that lukashenko will fall. at the same time, the eu should continue its policy of critical engagement, and we all have to make it clear to the belarusian authorities that the normalisation of relations with europe depends on the advancement of democracy in belarus. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr lebreton, i have the impression that my speech has been badly interpreted. yes, i am in favour of reconciliation, but only if the osce mission certifies that the presidential election was held in accordance with the standards of that organisation. i am in favour of dialogue and engagement with belarus, but on the basis of our principles in the union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i was really happy to support mr deutsch's report because i can say that, based on the experience of latvia, there are two competing processes: the emptying of economically backward regions, on the one hand, and the implementation of cohesion programmes, on the other. unfortunately, cohesion programmes designed to give these regions a future are losing the battle for the time being, because they are too small and too late. the european parliament calls on the european commission to do everything possible to reduce development inequalities in the european union. and i hope that this report is another contribution to this very important work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i was very happy to support mr cook's report because active ageing is a reality in the european union. and with that, the issue of intergenerational solidarity is more relevant than ever. the european commission estimates that by 2050 the average age of europeans will be over 50. european countries must be prepared to make a difference in the economic, social, medical and educational spheres. in principle, the scenes from the fiction books have become reality, when we answer the question of how to prolong the working capacity of people, how to give them the ability to adapt to the demands of the labour market. these and other issues are becoming more relevant every year, especially in my country, latvia, where the nation is also actively ageing. and to prepare for this change, i believe that we must start now to act actively at the level of the european union. thank you.
my fellow citizens! i supported this report because i think it is very important, even though it is only for 2011. because the purpose of the white paper on transport, in my view, is to set out a strategic vision for the creation of a competitive and efficient transport system in the european union. this is a more pressing issue than ever, both in the context of globalisation and when we have to adapt to an economy in which transport plays a huge role. i am pleased to have supported this report also because the european parliament is asking the european commission to propose specific measures to best achieve the strategic vision i have already mentioned, in particular the creation of a transeuropean transport network. this would be a significant contribution to the future common transport system. thank you.
in writing. ‒ it is abnormal that women are still significantly less than men among university professors and even more deans. there's no law that says you have to give way to men. it is also a form of discrimination. that's what you all have to fight against. overall, the report reflects the situation well and i voted in favour. i can do anything to a woman! power to women! - english)
in writing. ‒ girls are still not getting the same education as boys. there is a problem. we need to help not only to make education more accessible to girls at all levels, but also to help them integrate well into the eu labour market and develop their careers. i support this bill, i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ switzerland is not and will not be an eu member in the near future, although it is in the same economic zone with the eu, norway, etc. all of this means that economic integration is possible and must be supported. the creation of an internal market is a win-win for everyone - citizens of the eea and the swiss confederation, businesses and multinational companies. free trade must be without frontiers. i voted for it.
mr president, i also voted in favour of this resolution. i find this text to be a tree with beautiful foliage but without root. its very first recital says that an unprecedented number of people are seeking protection in the eu as a consequence of persistent conflicts, regional instability and human rights violations. but this regional instability is a consequence of what? where is the root? it is clear why the resolution does not contain the answer to that question: many of those who – then being ministers or ruling party leaders – created this instability in afghanistan, iraq and syria are now sitting here in this chamber. they now want to shift personal responsibility onto the shoulders of taxpayers generally. of course we have to be humane in our attitude towards refugees, but these irresponsible policymakers do not deserve our humanity.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i believe that the european union should create a comprehensive mechanism to deal with the refugee issue. because migration was, is and will be the order of the day. the solution to this problem by temporary means is short-sighted. it is also essential to develop a common eu asylum policy and a common migration policy in parallel. the european union is developing in a very different way, as crises have become part of the process of eurointegration. in the absence of a crisis, it is very difficult for heads of state to reach an agreement. the lack of determination leads to a crisis, and it becomes clear to everyone that without reforms, it cannot be overcome. there was the financial crisis, now there's the refugee crisis. gradually, we came to the conclusion that without a common asylum and migration policy, we would not move forward. there's no time to think. we have to act. i supported this document.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis is the biggest europe has seen since world war ii and a european solution must be found for it. there are conflicts and war in many countries at the european borders. however, i abstained from supporting a this resolution as it overlooks very important elements of a complex solution, among others: properly addressing root causes for people to flee from their countries, the role of a european common foreign and security policy and the development aid policy, security and functionality of the schengen area, risks for terrorism and huge numbers of internally displaced people in ukraine.
in writing. at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted against the resolution on migration and refugees in europe, because it calls for the introduction of a mandatory resettlement mechanism for refugees and does not offer a solution to stop the uncontrolled flow of refugees. in this particular situation, the introduction of an automatic relocation mechanism without closing and strengthening the external borders of the european union poses a high risk of an increase in the flow of refugees and a further increase in the number of people to be relocated between member states. the european union must finally tackle the causes, not the consequences.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european union has consistently supported the two-state solution, which is the only way out of the war and into peace - that is, when palestinians and israelis recognise each other and the 1967 borders. even on the condition that jerusalem be the capital of both nations. i think it's a sensible solution, and it could provide a solid foundation for both countries in the future. unfortunately, in palestine and israel, their negotiations are currently at a dead end. i would like to acknowledge the active role of the high representative of the european union, ms mogerini, in trying to revive this negotiating process and to encourage her to continue to support the middle east peace process with equal energy and determination. and i want to say that i am very afraid of the populist notion that there will now be two states for two peoples. there will be two states for all the people who want to live in them! thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. relations between the european union and belarus have been improving recently. i would like to highlight two positive aspects which are reflected in the resolution. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. i hope that the improvement in our relationship will be more lasting than the last time. the eu's relations with belarus are like the seasonal changes behind the polar arc. the long winter is replaced by a short summer, which unfortunately is very similar to the cold autumn. the european union and belarus are currently experiencing another cooling off period, but i am very much afraid that this will be replaced by another winter. i think both sides want the situation to improve dramatically and both sides want to see a lasting positive outcome of the cooperation. of course, much depends on the attitude of the belarusian authorities. but let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what we - the european union - can do for ourselves! because i see a bright future for the european union and for belarus.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. unfortunately, the so-called social economy in latvia, where the social goals of the company are put above the interests of capital, is extremely rare. i have to say that there is also no definition in our laws of what can be called a social enterprise, let alone a strategy for supporting such an enterprise. this is why it is crucial that the european commission supports business incubators for social or solidarity enterprises and encourages the creation of such enterprises throughout the european union. you guys! the social economy can be stimulated from many sides, but not always from countries, especially from eastern european countries, including my country latvia, where both the public, officials and activists are not aware of this phenomenon, so it is very logical that we can ask the european commission to show initiative in this matter, to give its support to social enterprises and to help create common online platforms for people and companies interested in achieving social goals.
my dear colleagues! given europe's complex demographic situation with an ageing population, the only way to develop the economy is to increase productivity. ambitious reforms are needed to increase productivity. we need to stimulate innovation, we need to strengthen social dialogue, we need to stimulate job creation, worker mobility, etc. i fully support the proposals in this report. you guys! thinking about a competitive european labour market requires first of all making forecasts about what technological opportunities will be available, how demand will change in the labour market, what new professions might in principle emerge, which might disappear and what new services might be in demand. knowing the challenges ahead, we can adapt our education, social and transport systems to meet them, stimulate innovation and strengthen social dialogue. the european parliament must therefore call on the european commission to take more active action in this direction. thank you.
in writing. ‒ good, well-written report, i voted for it with my political group.
madam president, asylum rights and the right to life and to safety have always been highly regarded fundamental rights in the european union. there is no doubt that there is a need to help those people whose lives are threatened, but at the same time no sane person either in western or eastern europe will question this. at the same time, we must note once more that this is not a migrant crisis, but a crisis produced by weak and delayed foreign security policies, including the inability to control our existing borders and to enforce the law. being kind to refugees does not mean that we have to abolish laws, states and borders. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that lately eu decisions have taken a serious turn. there are some politicians who would like to force, threaten and blackmail sovereign countries – smaller and weaker countries – to adopt a certain position. if this happens we will abolish the traditional right established already by john locke in the european union: we cannot enforce good by wrong means, nor by might. we have to remember that.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: some people say that all politics is a circus. what do we see in the circus? if this were a circus hall, there would be a rope stretched from one end of the tree to the other, and one could walk on that rope without trying to slide to the right or to the left, but somehow to keep going. in fact, what we have to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the creation of this energy union - and i thank the commission for the first four proposals which have now been put forward - is to walk along this line without turning to the right or to the left. in this case, 'right, left' would mean that on the one hand we have to balance the need to promote the competitiveness of the european union - prices, energy prices and so on - and on the other hand we have to think about reducing co2 emissions. we can't go into one trench and fall in or the other trench and fall in, because, my friends, we don't know if the net is under us or not. so with all due respect to the commission, these specific proposals are the last. ladies and gentlemen, this is a major challenge for us, but the energy union is not only about, as they say, these internal considerations - competitiveness, co2 emissions - but also external considerations. so what's happening to our energy security? in the european union, we know that we are very dependent on imports. and what makes me fearful, what makes my group fearful, is that the news recently came out that gazprom had reached an agreement with several large european union energy companies to expand what is called nord stream 2 which would actually expand, deepen europe's dependence on one supplier. so i would urge the european commission to also address this aspect and consider whether or not this is in the interest of european consumers.
my fellow citizens! the european economy is not growing because of a long-term stagnation in demand. the symptoms are low demand, low inflation, low levels of investment. the question is: how can we expect demand to pick up when unemployment is high in many eu countries, especially among young people? unemployed people can't buy anything for themselves. many europeans have large loans and are forced to pay back a significant part of their income to banks. what additional factors are involved? thousands of european workers are not getting their wages. many of them are not sure that they will be released tomorrow. they are not sure of their future. no wonder they save for a rainy day instead of spending. if people don't buy goods and services, jobs are lost in many sectors, and a stagnant, stagnant economy is created. it is therefore essential that the commission, in its work programme for next year, supports job creation and maximum integration of people into the labour market. i think that's the whole point. it's where we need to find a way out of the stalemate.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution on the commission's 2016 work programme, the european parliament gives the european commission a mandate for the work to be done in 2016. the resolution highlights many points of importance to latvia, such as the geopolitical need to diversify energy supplies and the european commission's proposal for a revised natural gas supply regulation. parliament also stressed the need to complete the so-called banking union and to embark on the creation of a capital markets union. i believe that all these initiatives are also in the interests of latvia, and i therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the european parliament's vote on a resolution providing for the admission of 120 000 refugees from italy, greece and hungary. i believe that all eu member states should be involved in helping member states currently in difficulty by taking in additional asylum seekers who have already arrived in those member states and who are in need of international protection. however, such assistance should be based on the principle of voluntariness and not on mandatory quotas binding on member states. the eu's external borders are also not closed and secured, so there is a high risk that the flow of refugees will only increase and that the number of people to be distributed among member states will continue to grow. the eu must set up and finance reception points for refugees outside the eu, such as in turkey, and develop a transparent and legal system to allow war refugees to be received in a controlled manner in eu member states. the european union must finally tackle the causes, not the consequences.
in writing. ‒ the record-fast mobilisation of parliament for the vote is a political signal to the eu's interior ministers, who will meet again on tuesday 22 september to try again, after the failure of 14 september, to agree on emergency measures to deal with the refugee crisis. i voted for it.
i would like to thank president tusk for his frank language on the new political pressure or hybrid warfare we are experiencing from third countries at the moment, and also for the fact that the main emphasis is on the protection of the external borders of the european union. on the other hand, the european commission's proposal, which focused on the allocation of quotas within the european union, actually led to a rather negative assessment of the european institutions by citizens, to a split of opinion between democratically elected governments in the european union, and ultimately to the fact that refugees will not be happy either, because their secondary movement within the european union from the country where they will be allocated is not possible, which in fact leads to a discriminatory situation. and here i would also like to have a reply from the president of the commission on another democratic and political issue: that you should, in order to preserve credibility, give a quick response to the inquiry into the recent situation which could have affected the catalan elections, as regards the spanish language, your pre-election response.
in writing. ‒ the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour is without doubt one of the most important and fundamental documents on labour quality standards in the world. it is a convention that every country must ratify, and the sooner the better, because such a step would mean that the country is supporting the unique international human rights norms and would also be quite deliberate, based on the imperatives of the development of the general society. forced labour is in fact a form of servitude or even partial slavery, where the worker is paid almost nothing, has no real prospects for the future and his personal development is severely limited or non-existent as such. i, like my colleagues from the socialist and democratic group and other political groups, voted in favour of this protocol and i call on all 28 member states of the european union to ratify this essential and necessary document as soon as possible. moreover, i very much hope that something similar could be offered for ratification and implementation to other countries in other parts of the world, particularly in asia and africa.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine, which was discovered more than 60 years ago and has been used with varying frequency since, is a very potent substance that can be dangerous if used unknowingly (for example, for narcotic or serotonin-raising purposes). in europe, several dozen deaths from amphetamine use occurred a few years ago (2012-2013) and traces of 4-methylamphetamine were found in their blood at the same time. given the situation with the use of various chemicals in the world and in europe in particular, controls on these and similar substances are essential to ensure not only a higher level of public health but also a potential reduction in sudden deaths among mainly young people who use substances that threaten health.
in writing. ‒2-aminopropylindole was first identified in the laboratory of albert hofmann in 1962 and was already classified as a 'designer drug'. this substance is highly psychoactive and is now actively traded on the black market. in sweden alone, 14 people died from the drug between april 2012 and june 2012, all aged between 20 and 30. in some countries around the world, like australia, the united kingdom and denmark, as far as i know, 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole has been legally banned. in other words, even if in a controlled way this substance could theoretically help someone, given the specificity of this hypothetical situation, the substance is overall life-threatening and therefore legal control is absolutely necessary. i voted for it!
in writing. ‒ 25i-nbome is a potent psychedelic substance which, although in low doses may help stimulate thinking processes or improve mood, in excessive doses may lead to human death. ah-7921 is an opiate that was discovered a few years ago to have been used in japan for a time in the production of synthetic hashish. for example, in brazil and israel, this substance, which has never been commercially sold anywhere in the world, is banned. the substance is known to be a partial (~80%) morphine substituent. mdpv (methylenedioxypirovalerone) is a psychoactive recreational drug. there are cases where their use has led to severe psychological as well as physical trauma. a substance that stimulates alertness and euphoria. it is banned in some countries and controlled in others. overdosage may lead to death. methotrexate is a dissociative drug known to be a two- to three-fold stronger analogue of ketamine. the substance is known to be specially formulated for sale on the so-called grey market. for example, in switzerland and russia, it is illegal. overall, given the list of substances examined in this report and their specificity, there are only two options for how to act in principle control or prohibition, no less. i voted for it.
in writing. the use of the drug is not restricted to the general public, but is generally considered to be a problem for the general public. the use of these substances has resulted in dozens of deaths in 2013-2014 (ireland, hungary, uk). mt-45 (also known as ic-6) is an opioid analgesic. there have been reports of hearing loss and unconsciousness due to the use of these substances. i voted in favour of this report on the basis of the above, because we must not leave such substances unchecked by the law. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ greece and bulgaria ask for money from the european union solidarity fund to compensate for flood damage. the fund was set up as an extra measure to help areas that suffered from severe flooding in 2002. the fund shall have a volume of eur 500 million per year. the rules of the fund provide for a threshold: if losses exceed this threshold, the fund can be used to provide financial assistance.
the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products is very important and necessary. i support that. it helps to improve the level of consumer information and thus enables them to orient themselves more effectively on the goods sold on the market. the expansion and effective implementation of such a system would give people greater confidence in the quality of the product and would serve as a guarantee and a means of protection for the producer, since the producers are also in fact consumers. indeed, preserving traditional crop production can help to halt the depopulation and degradation of rural areas and the outflow of young people from the countryside. for example, in my country, in the case of latvia, these trends are particularly strong in the poorest region of the country, latgale, as well as in other regions.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution on the possible extension of the protection of eu geographical indications to non-agricultural products. at present, the single system of protection of geographical indications at eu level is only for agricultural products whose manufacture is based on traditional recipes and know-how, but there are many other products whose manufacture is based on specific regional knowledge and folk recipes. this resolution calls for the establishment of a uniform system in the european union to indicate the geographical origin of regional and local products, thus preserving and promoting local skills and promoting trade. the geographical origin should be indicated on the product in order to demonstrate its quality and to create a link with a specific territory, which could also promote tourism. the economic potential of such a uniform system could be considerable and it is important to make the application procedure for protection of geographical origin at eu level as simple and inexpensive as possible.
in writing. i believe that, in parallel with support for innovation, it is necessary to protect traditional products, the production methods of which have been handed down from generation to generation. the european union is already successfully operating a protected geographical indication for food products; the list also includes three unique latvian products sklandrausi, carnikava negi and blended brown bread. when applying the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural and craft products of regional and local importance, the beneficiaries of which are regions, small and medium-sized enterprises, artisans and, of course, consumers, will be those whose production is based on traditional skills or knowledge. latvia also has a wide range of products that are specific to a particular place or geographical area, such as latgale podnjenje. the introduction of geographical indications for non-food products will boost the economy, tourism and help to preserve cultural heritage and traditional skills. the establishment of such a list would also provide the basis for the european union to provide the same protection for exports of products in international trade negotiations. beneficiaries will also be consumers, who will be provided with reliable information on the location and method of manufacture to help them make an informed choice, avoiding any misleading names or descriptions. the creation of such a register would also make it possible to combat counterfeiting, prevent unfair competition and other unfair practices at the same time, the registration procedure should be as efficient, simple and accessible as possible in order not to create an additional administrative and financial burden for manufacturers.
this proposal concerns financial assistance to greece. and the idea is good to increase the maximum share of the european union budget for prefinancing and interim payments to 100%. the same with the funds for the convergence, regional competitiveness and employment objectives programme for 2007-13 and the same with the additional assistance for 2014-2020. i would particularly like to mention the case of fisheries and investment. of course, the provision of this aid is not intended simply to cover expenditure in specific areas, but to increase the overall competitiveness of the greek economy and its workers. the main objective of the new aid is to stimulate the greek government's efforts to initiate and gradually implement reforms that would also allow greece to return to being one of the most developed, competitive and progressive countries in europe and the world. i must say that the health of greece is the health of europe. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this fund is to help displaced people to acquire a new profession or find a job. this is applied in the case of redundancies of more than 500 people, e.g. when production moves outside the eu. in the case of latvia, an attempt was made to obtain funds from this fund for liepaja metalurgs, but there is no information on whether this was successful. the german government is asking for about 7 million. one of three opel plants has shut down, and over a thousand workers have been laid off. the reason is that demand for cars is at its lowest level since 1997. between 2007 and 2013, new car purchases in europe decreased by 25%. the decline was particularly pronounced among manufacturers producing cars for the middle class, as demand has shifted towards more fuel-efficient cars.
in writing. ‒ the belgian government is asking for help with similar problems at ford's plant in ghent. the amount is the same about 7 million and the reasoning is similar a 15% decrease in demand. in addition, the situation is affected by the decrease in demand in russia, brazil and argentina.
in writing. ‒ the aid concerns 1249 former alitalia workers from the lazio region of italy, who were affected by the global economic crisis and the use of less active airlines. the majority of these former employees are aged between 30 and 54 (96.79%) and a further 3.3% are aged between 55 and 64. assistance to these people could allow them to re-qualify and gradually re-enter the labour market to participate actively in the progressive economic life of their country. this is the second application overall concerning the european aviation sector. the objective of technical assistance directly affects only 15% of these people (184 people), but it could still allow them to return to the labour market as soon as possible in the same or another field. the good news is that some of the former workers affected are over 50 years old. although these people technically only had a decade (or half) of active work left before retirement, their return to the labour market would allow them to continue to use their accumulated knowledge and experience.
as we know, the european union is the world's largest donor of financial and other forms of aid. as one of the most developed and richest regions in the world, we have a duty to help others. and one of the most effective ways to do that, in my view, is to work with municipalities. to a large extent, it is often the regions of countries outside the capital that contribute to national development, both economically and culturally as well as politically. it is therefore essential to share national wealth with such regions and never never forget the periphery. this principle can be applied to any country, not just a developing country like my own. in latvia, there is a strong disparity in economic development and overall wealth between the capital city of riga and the latgale region. and i think with that kind of support, we can get very good results.
as legislators, we are generally very busy making new regulations. mostly with the goal of making the world a better place in some way. this has also been the case in the automotive industry, where we have imposed increasingly stringent requirements over the years to reduce co2 and harmful emissions, especially nox. and so for many years, we have believed that every year new products are being made that are more environmentally friendly and make a better world for us and our children. but what really happened? it turns out we're being totally fooled. one, perhaps several, car manufacturers have deliberately stockpiled technologies that appear to meet standards but do not actually meet them. what can we learn from this? what i think is remarkable is that this was discovered not by the european commission or by an agency of the european union, but by the united states. and why was it revealed in this way? apparently, there's an independent agency, not affiliated with the auto industry, that could have discovered this and shown us, the consumers, what's going on. i think we in europe really need to learn from this and i would urge the commission and the commissioner in particular to be more aggressive in offering us a system for how we could set up an independent inspection body that could inspect not just cars but all the goods we buy. because it is important that once we have established environmental requirements, that they are actually met. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
answer to the blue card question. colleagues, let's not be naive, i didn't think that just one car company would be interested in somehow circumventing the law. i don't have any proof right now. but what's happened is that our trust in the system has been shattered. and to regain that trust, i am calling on the european commission to come up with a proposal on how we could create a single european-level supervisor that is completely independent of any car manufacturer. let this suspicion, which i and probably many others have, be dispelled.
for a week now, russian planes have been bombing assad's enemies in syria. for several weeks now, putin has ordered separatists in donbas not to fire and to put minsk into the mines. putin's main target in syria is europe. he's offering europe a deal on ukraine, or russian forces will further destabilize the middle east and increase the flow of refugees to europe. putin wants to make a deal with the west on his terms, but europe cannot afford such a deal. an international political solution in syria must be sought regardless of putin's adventure in ukraine. and the main partners in this solution are syria's neighbors along with the european union, the united states and also russia. the hybrid war against ukraine must be stopped regardless of the outcome of the russian military adventure in syria. thank you.
madam president, i believe in the european union, but i equally believe in the need for self-criticism. syria is a good lesson for us in how we failed because of our inactivity, our passivity and our wishful thinking in foreign policy. at the moment we are dealing with a refugee crisis which is only the tip of this iceberg of failed foreign policy. we have been listening to the cries of our neighbour beating his wife for four years and now, when the wife is knocking on our door, we either send her to a neighbour’s house because ours is full or simply tell her that she is welcome inside. no, we have to deal with foreign policy issues and, unfortunately, those who refused to deal with turkey are now happy cooperating – or trying to cooperate – with putin and assad. together with the united nations, we need an active policy, not only in the capitals but also in brussels and the commission. until we succeed with this, we will fail eternally. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do not think we can speak about a european army or anything like that, but obviously our western coalition has been failing because we declined to intervene when the red lines were crossed, as obama suggested. i saw no worthwhile proposals from our european union side until putin made his tactical move, and he is now the leading guy whom we would have to obey. so, as to the possibility of a no-fly zone, better cooperation with turkey, additional money for refugees: unfortunately there is no good solution, but better now than four years too late.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported this extremely important and necessary proposal, because we meps need to understand how we will work after two healthy years. this is particularly important in order to be able to work more effectively for the european people. the european union is a great success, the european parliament is a great success, martin schulz is a great success!
in writing. ‒ tunisia is one of the european union's most active partners in the euro-mediterranean region; cooperation with tunisia received a strong impetus following the arab spring a few years ago. and as social, economic, political and other changes continue to take place in this country, we must support this european neighbour on its way to deeper and more effective implementation of the norms of democracy and human rights in everyday life, not to mention the economic and social development that is so important to the existence of any state and society. economic and social reforms, scientific and cultural exchanges, more effective border controls, attracting investment, regular contacts between countries and people, due to closer regional integration - for these and many other reasons, i voted in favour of this important and necessary draft resolution.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european union is based on cooperation between nations, regions and people. in economic terms, one of the most important roles is played by small and medium-sized enterprises. similarly, where for one reason or another there are claims or claims between partners or colleagues at a lower level of cooperation individuals, legal persons for the settlement of which financial compensation is required, it is essential that an effectively functioning system be available to resolve such situations. given that the report specifically addressed such efficiency gains in the existing small claims and european order for payment procedure systems, i voted unanimously in favour of the proposed amendments as i fully support them. a more efficient complaints system is one of the guarantees for a fairer economic and financial system in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a standardised european procedure for small claims and a european payment order procedure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this means that in the future more eu citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) will be able to use this procedure to directly resolve cross-border disputes arising over small sums of money. the amendments to the regulation mean that the costs of litigation could be reduced by up to 40%, as they will have to be set at the level of the proportion of the claim and cannot exceed the costs of simplified court proceedings at national level. the length of the trial will also be cut almost in half. such improvements are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is why i also joined the majority of the ep in voting for this regulation.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. today, human life is largely unimaginable without electricity, heating, and other benefits that are essential to society and economic models in developed countries. however, it is also quite obvious that the benefits are accompanied by emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust during the process. and the problem is that up to now, there have actually been two directives in the european union that apply to this issue: the small combustion plant directive, the so-called ecodesign directive, and the large combustion plant directive, the so-called industrial emissions directive. in order to differentiate more effectively between the different combustion plants and to avoid legal overlap between the two directives, i fully support the idea of a third directive, namely on medium combustion plants, but in parallel with the creation of a new directive, ladies and gentlemen, excessive administrative burdens must not be allowed. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on the proposal for a directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. legislation already regulates large co2 emitters, but the installations covered by this directive also generate a significant share of pollution and it is therefore only justified to create a more level playing field for all. however, differences in climate regulation between the eu and the rest of the world should not be overlooked. the eu continues to regulate and impose stricter requirements on its industry, but other countries are reluctant to do so. as a result, there is a risk that european industry will shift production to jurisdictions with lower climate requirements and thus lower costs. in the light of the agreement reached with the council, i consider that the final text of the directive is balanced and i voted in favour of it.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. casein is a member of the phosphoprotein family, which makes up up to four-fifths of the total protein in mammalian milk. in human milk, this is 20 to 45%. in other words, casein is a completely natural chemical substance produced in the body, including humans. moreover, casein contains all the essential amino acids and is therefore an important food protein. notwithstanding the above and the general naturalness of casein, there are international standards which require the uprooting of such standards in europe in order to guarantee, among other things, the availability of european casein-containing food products on the international market. another very important factor that can be applied to goods is that standardisation in this area would help consumers to better orient themselves in the foodstuffs available to them in any member state of the european union. i voted for it. thank you.
in writing. ‒ financial stability in a european union of 28 member states is vital. given the many different areas that are affected by the eu budget on a daily basis, it is vital to be fully clear about how, to whom and how much is spent in each case. a large part of the amendments accepted today are geared precisely to the effective implementation of such a principle. agriculture, fisheries, culture, foreign and defence policy, industry, economics and finance, regional development and cooperation, and interregional equalization - all these and many others - are areas where huge sums of money are spent each year, both inside and outside the european union. our duty in this case was to support amendments which would potentially make spending and its monitoring more efficient in the european union, both at transnational and national level, as regards european funds and other sources, the majority of which, without doubt, are in one way or another contributions from european union taxpayers.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the european union has one major strategic weakness: our huge dependence on imports. directly in the energy sector, directly from one supplier russia. our great weakness. but we have a solution to this. this solution is called the european energy union, and it has three main pillars. the first is to reduce import dependency, the second is to increase competition and the third is to diversify sources of supply (sources of imports). this nord stream ii project is in fact the complete opposite of our stated objectives for the energy union. he, first of all, increases our dependence on imports directly from russia, he reduces competition, and he increases suppliers directly, as they say, from one source, not different sources, but back to the same russia. if we take into account the fact that by doubling the capacity of nord stream, russia will effectively be able to cut off ukraine as a transit country ukraine, which we as europe are also trying to push economically, and it would lose tremendous funds, not to mention its energy security, this project should be stopped. now, how do you stop it? the first is: politically like the south stream project, it was suspended, in fact, for political reasons. the second is also legal. and here we have to give the european commission the tools to investigate the content of this agreement, directly by allowing access to corporate contracts between large strategic companies with energy suppliers in third countries, in this case gazprom. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president. the modern economy is no longer conceivable without electronic financial transactions, and unlike the old days when it was possible to pay either by barter or by direct transaction from hand to hand, or the middle ages when the bills of exchange system appeared, the modern world is increasingly paying directly by electronic transactions. consequently, the clearer the legal description of all the principles for implementing these activities, the more effective it will be both to implement them in practice and to give some impetus to economic development precisely because of better standardisation. the possibility of a clearer choice and transparency of payment services, the creation and continuous development of a more integrated and secure internal market for electronic payments, the standardisation of the rights and obligations of all parties involved in payments between member states, including the commission of intermediaries and the principles of their operation all this and much more is essential both for the successful development of the european union's economy and for strengthening consumer confidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market because i believe it will promote the development of electronic means of payment and simplify electronic payments for both citizens and businesses. the directive will create a more level playing field for existing and new market participants by facilitating access to a wider market for new payment instruments and ensuring a high level of consumer protection in the use of these payment services in the eu. the aim is to create a favourable environment for the creation of new and innovative means of payment in the future. initiatives that reduce the fragmentation of the eu market, especially in the financial sector, are welcome, which is why i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. while card transactions and money transfers within the european union have been streamlined, ensuring that payments across europe are as simple and secure as in the consumer's country of residence, it should be borne in mind that innovative methods for initiating payments in e-commerce have been developed since the adoption of the payment services directive in 2007. it is important to further develop an integrated and secure internal market for electronic payments to ensure that consumers, traders and businesses have choice and transparency of payment services. i therefore voted in favour of the regulation, which will, among other things, make it possible to make payments by mobile or online means, improve the security of payment services, data protection and financial responsibility of service providers. new payment services should be secure and protect the user in the event of theft or loss of a payment instrument, or if it has been misused. therefore, the aid is compatible with the provisions that, in the event of an unauthorised payment from a payer's account, the account holder may not lose more than eur 50. it is equally important that the cost of using the payment instrument is proportionate and that the fee charged by the payment service provider to the customer does not exceed the direct costs incurred for the use of the payment instrument.
one of the main causes and consequences of the economic and financial crises of the last decade in several countries, including my country, latvia, was precisely the inability of citizens to repay loans received from credit institutions for the purchase of houses, cars and other goods. while it is perfectly logical that, when a loan is obtained, the borrower must repay both the loan and the interest associated with it after a specified period, it is not normal for such a large number of people to have to give up their homes or other property, which is often used as collateral to obtain such loans. colleagues, the human right to a roof over your head is one of the most fundamental, and it is therefore absolutely necessary to reform the legislative system of mortgage lenders so that people can both receive loans and pay them in full. i support it, i voted for it.
thank you, mr president. every person should have the right to life, to due process of law for violations, and to the possibility of paying back to society the penalty received by a court, no matter how long it may take to do so in full. in the modern world, however, capital punishment can no longer be considered an effective form of punishment, especially since there is always the possibility that it could be misapplied, resulting in a person's death for crimes he never committed. in recent years, the number of executions has increased dramatically in some countries of the world. a fact that is deeply regrettable, especially considering that several of the cases involve people who did not do what they were convicted of. i voted in favour of this resolution.
thank you, mr president. five years ago, the hungarians suffered the worst industrial and environmental disaster in their country's history. ten people were killed and 150 were injured. i would like to express once again my heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and to the hungarian people. in general, recent european history has seen catastrophic events with huge losses, such as the oil spill of the tanker prestige in galicia in 2002, when no lives were lost. however, there is a big difference between disasters that are very difficult to predict even in theory and those in which problems were systematically accumulated and safety techniques were often not put into practice. given that there are still several factories and other establishments in many parts of europe where materials that threaten health and life are handled or stored, it is essential to actively inform people living nearby about the situation.
humans, like many other creatures on our planet, are made up of two parts - male and female. and it should be absolutely self-evident that both parties should participate fully and as actively as possible in the life of the society of their respective countries. this also applies at the transnational, national level. in many countries, and unfortunately also in the european union, women of all ages still lack sufficient control over their lives. early marriage is just one example. the inability to attend school, to receive a quality education, to work in the various fields according to one's knowledge and abilities without any segregation or discrimination based on gender, as well as widespread poverty, especially in lower income families where the main provider is a woman. these and similar situations should not exist in our world. that's why i voted yes.
the guarantee of equality between women and men in matters of employment is one of the most important and fundamental principles on which the european union is founded. it is, for example, perfectly natural that the candidates best prepared for the objectives pursued in the workplace should also be given certain jobs irrespective of their gender or any other factors. the same applies to equal pay for equal work. at the same time, it is important that employers also try to maintain a gender balance when drawing up lists of acceptable candidates. wherever possible, for example, on the basis of the total number of applications received, respectively for each sex. and while for purely biological reasons women and men are not equal (in the same way that pregnancy, etc. cannot happen to men), discrimination is not acceptable, and i was very happy to support this document.
in writing. i abstained in the european parliament's vote on the resolution on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. i believe that ensuring equal opportunities and rights for men and women in employment and occupation is a very important task, but this resolution contains many points that are not relevant to the directive and its objectives. for example, i voted against the resolution item calling for the introduction of mandatory pay audits for companies in the new ec directive. i also did not support the proposal to prohibit companies from participating in public procurement tenders if they do not employ a sufficient number of women, as it is often the specific characteristics of the company that determine the gender ratio in question, as is the case, for example, in construction companies. the requirement to introduce mandatory gender quotas not only interferes with national legislation but directly threatens the principle of equality in our society, where people are not judged by their abilities but by their gender. in view of the above and other considerations, i have decided to abstain from making this report.
there is no doubt that human activities are adversely affecting the climate, that we are contributing to global warming. i think it's pretty clear that we have to do something. i also think it is right that the european union should take a leading role in the world, setting an example for others to follow. my concern is that if europe is taking the lead, it is important that we are followed. think about the title of this report, the international climate agreement in paris. it's very important for us in paris to get the rest of the world, especially the united states, china and india, to follow suit, because they are the main environmental polluters, the natural polluters that contribute to this co2 emissions and global warming. so if we don't get people to follow us to understand the consequences, europe may actually reduce its competitiveness by imposing a need for its industry to reduce waste. to remain competitive, we must follow others.
i fully support my colleagues who believe that the conflicts in syria and ukraine should not be linked in any way. the provisions of the minsk pact must be fulfilled. that's out of the question. former so-called 'minister of internal affairs' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. if this does not happen, then no review of sanctions against russia is possible. i appreciate the contribution of chancellor merkel and president hollande to the settlement of this conflict, but i would like to stress that both the minsk and the normandy formats must include the european union and the high representative for foreign affairs must be at the negotiating table. i admire the determination of the ukrainian rada and government to reform the country's legislation and to implement reforms in the context of war. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
the blue card issue. dear mrs. kalnietes, thank you so much for accepting my blue card question. you were in ukraine in july this year, and at the maidan when the events were just beginning, and now, several months and years later, do you think that if yanukovych had been elected at the very beginning of november 2013 instead of the violent march, but an emergency election, it would have avoided thousands of deaths both in kiev and later in eastern ukraine?
answer to the blue card question. history cannot be replayed, so it is only speculation. russia, the direct participant in this conflict, must bear full responsibility for what has happened. instead of using fancy words and blaming ukraine for fascism and other troubles, russia should think more about how to settle its relations with ukraine in a civilized and european way.
in writing. - terrorism is undoubtedly the scourge of modern humanity. fighting them actively, transnationally and in a coordinated way is the moral duty of any state, especially given that no state, including in europe, is completely immune from them. information sharing and inter-agency consultation between several countries are absolutely necessary for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences. it is therefore worthwhile to approve access to the visa information system by europol and by the authorities of the selected member states of the european union. while it is perfectly logical that we should help those in need, we must not allow the crossing of europe's borders by terrorists and other criminals. and if it has already happened, it is necessary to coordinate international efforts to implement the lawful actions that would help to take the steps necessary for the security of europeans.
in writing. ‒ in appreciating both my colleague's report and the european commission's proposal for budgetary changes, to which this report refers through the council's position, i would like to highlight one particular moment that i, as a member of the european parliament representing latvia, find pleasant. i am pleased that the choice of the european electronic communications regulatory authority as the seat of the european union was made in riga some six years ago, in full understanding that the european union is trying to establish and locate different official bodies in the territories of the eu member states, based on the principle of relative balance. our capital is undoubtedly a great place, where - by the way, as in latvia as a whole - there is one of the best internet infrastructures in the world. the establishment of a structure for electronic communications therefore fills my heart with joy and hope that our country will continue to be chosen to host important institutions and also to organise a number of european and international events.
in writing. ‒ the approval of the annual budget of the european union is a highly complex political and bureaucratic process, which makes it quite difficult to allocate financial resources to activities that were not included in this budget or were included but with smaller amounts of funds. that is why the flexibility instrument exists. in particular, with regard to the proposal to increase the general budget of the union for 2016 and 2017 from the flexibility instrument resources intended to be used to finance measures to manage the refugee and migration crisis, as examined in this report, i consider such action to be fully justified and logical. given the seriousness of the crisis europe is now facing, the allocation of additional funds and their subsequent effective use to overcome this crisis is absolutely necessary.
in writing. ‒ while europe has been a magnet for many migrants and refugees for many years, the events of 2015 are without doubt the most unprecedented in the history of our union. and if, on the basis of pure geographical logic, it is perfectly understandable why the absolute majority of these people are arriving in europe in its south and southeast, we cannot leave greece, italy, hungary and now croatia and other countries unattended. i fully support this budget change, because it is not only aimed at trying to stabilise the situation in europe itself, but also in those countries from which the majority of migrants and refugees also come to us. you can't try to deal with a problem without addressing its root cause. frontex, europol and the european asylum support office, as well as other relevant bodies, are at the heart of the crisis management and need to be supported, including through increased staffing, in order to better tackle the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ whether or not mr kovacs was a spy for the russian federation, he was indicted by the hungarian prosecutor's office for this. the fair administration of justice is therefore necessary to enable the truth or falsity of the allegation to be understood, as well as the facts of the case as a whole.
in writing. ‒ as with the post of managing director of the european fund for strategic investments, i support the appointment of ms ilijana canova as deputy managing director of the esif. the european union needs professionals whose work will contribute to the successful development of our economy.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments is one of the key elements of the investment plan for europe, whose main objective is to stimulate long-term economic growth and competitiveness in the european union. the purpose of this fund is to use public funding to attract private investment. as the successful recovery and further development of the european union's economy depends on the work of this foundation, i support the appointment of the highly qualified professional mr wilhelm molterer as director of the event.
global climate change, i.e. changes in regional temperature dynamics at a global level, much more severe droughts and floods, and several other natural disasters increasingly identified each year are clear evidence that such processes cannot simply be blamed on natural changes, otherwise it would take at least a century, not a decade, if not less. although there are already a number of international documents in the world on national efforts to have a positive impact on climate change, the kyoto protocol being one of the best known, the actions currently being implemented cannot be classified as truly effective. the greenhouse effect, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the increase in the share of renewable energy production and use and the development of technology all indicate that we must think about climate change. i voted for it.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: what is the european union? well, we all understand that it is meant that people, goods, services and money can move freely across the borders of the european union. what is the reality so far? these principles don't always work, but especially when we travel abroad using our phones, we know that we're paying a high price for what we call roaming. this house, the european parliament, has been arguing for years that we need to eliminate roaming charges. the industry has often stood against it. what we have achieved now is a magical thing, namely that there is finally an agreement between the parliament and the member states of the council of europe that we will actually abolish these roaming charges by june 2017. the consumers will come. but the important thing is that it's not like consumers win and businesses lose. business owners benefit too. first, we are clearly and explicitly enshrining the principles of net neutrality in order to provide a safe investment environment for service providers. second, by 2017, we will regulate wholesale prices. (just a question, chairman, shall i repeat everything that i said? ) in the european union we want free borders, but these borders have not always been free, especially when we travel abroad with phones, we pay dearly for so-called roaming. parliament has for many years insisted that these roaming charges should be abolished. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. consumers will get it when they travel abroad. there will be no more surplus. but importantly, not only will consumers win, but businesses will too. the companies will gain, first, by our clearly predicting what the principle of net neutrality is. this means a safe environment for service providers to invest in the future. secondly, and this is very important, by june 2017 wholesale prices will also be regulated so that companies do not suffer losses in any country when providing this service to roaming customers and do not have to raise local tariffs to cover incoming tourists. so this is really a case where the consumer wins, the businesses win, the council wins and parliament wins. thank you all for your attention.
in writing. ‒ throughout the history of the european union and its institutional predecessors, a vast number of different regulations have been adopted, the task of which has been, or still is, to define the principles of operation in a wide range of policy areas. this has gradually led to a situation where several regulations are simply no longer relevant, either because their period of validity has expired or because some other, newer regulation has replaced them in terms of liability. therefore, i consider it logical to take steps to phase out such outdated regulations. fully support the cooperation of the european parliament, the commission and the council in the further standardisation and unification of union legislation. before the accession of the republic of latvia to the european union, two sugar factories were active in my country, using sugar beet as the main resource. in economic and social terms, this has had a positive impact on agriculture, light and food industries, as well as on the existence of jobs and related taxes. therefore, while i support the principles of the free market, i cannot but regret the fact that my country once had a whole industry whose production capacity allowed it to export its products abroad, whereas now sugar has to be imported.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. for reasons of geography, history, economy, culture and other reasons, switzerland has always been one of the most important partner countries of the european union and its institutional predecessors, and i am therefore very pleased that cooperation with the alpine republic will be further strengthened soon after the adoption of this legislative resolution and the entry into force of the protocol to the agreement, as amended accordingly. i don't want to share sensitive information that could greatly damage the reputation of a country with a reputation for banking secrecy. and personal information security is a very important aspect of anyone's life, even outside of credit institutions. however, they often led to a situation where many people with swiss bank accounts simply did not pay taxes in their home countries, including in the european union, and information on such breaches of the law was not available. both purely human and as a socialist in my own right, i am for social justice, which among other things already includes fair taxation in accordance with the law. i therefore voted in favour. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i warmly congratulated you on another step towards bringing both the european union and our swiss partners closer together. i urge the responsible eu officials to work towards concluding similar agreements with other partner countries whose banking systems, due to the specificities of their own systems, do not fully absorb the taxes owed to them by the budgets of our member states.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the storage tax directive entered into force as early as 2003. it consists of a number of separate mutual agreements between the member states of the european union, their overseas territories, and the european countries of andorra, liechtenstein, monaco, san marino and switzerland. the european commission is currently working, as we know, to make it possible to move to the automatic exchange of information of the organisation for economic co-operation and development in these global standards, especially on taxation in relation to the five countries mentioned. the same will be true of the member states of the european union and, if the european commission is given the appropriate powers, of the overseas territories. the commission therefore concludes that the taxation of the profits of the companies in question is not compatible with the internal market. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of data to promote public security is essential for the daily life of the member states of the european union, especially in view of the increased frequency of crossborder crime and terrorist activities worldwide in recent decades. sharing fingerprint data is an important step towards further enhancing this security to make the citizens of our countries' communities feel safer. at the same time, it is important to note that, while the use of eye trails, fingerprints and other similar data for the same biometric passports and other documents is becoming more common, it should not be allowed to fall into the hands of criminals, thus endangering the safety of those who need to use and exchange such data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report during the debate and the vote in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i did the same today because i believe that the exchange of fingerprint data is an important measure to promote european security. strengthening cross-border cooperation between law enforcement authorities of the european union and its member states is essential, especially at a time when there is a risk that, alongside genuine refugees from the middle east, supporters of radicalism and terrorist methods may enter the territory of the european union. as belgium is one of the most popular destinations for irregular migrants, this risk cannot be ignored. while we must help the victims, we must first of all think about the security of our common home, because otherwise it will no longer be safe for the citizens of our countries and for the asylum seekers themselves.
in writing. ‒ in july 2015, the council decided that poland fully complies with the data protection requirements required by the principles for the implementation of the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data covered by this report. i warmly welcomed this judgment, both because it concerns a country which joined the european union at the same time as the republic of latvia, thus proving that the 'new' member states can and do meet the high standards of promoting security set by the union, and because poland is geographically situated on the external border of the european union. the inclusion of poland in the system of automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data is an important factor in promoting greater security for all europeans. the same applies to the development of productive interrelationships in different areas with our neighbours - both near and far. if our partners see that we are doing everything we can to promote the safety of our own citizens, there is a high probability that a 'lead effect' will occur, i.e. the higher the sense of security we have, the higher the sense of security our partner countries' citizens may have. in this respect, it is worth noting the eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement, which may provide for the exchange of personal data. while the united states is undoubtedly one of the most important partners of the european union, none of the clauses contained in this treaty should be allowed to endanger the security of europeans in any way. any exchange of data must be fully legitimate and justified and mutually beneficial where such exchange is necessary.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the conditions discussed in this draft legislative resolution are fully applicable to any other area of our daily lives. travel service providers, food manufacturers, various contractors and several other bodies often do not provide all the information necessary for the consumer to make a fully informed choice. moreover, even if something is included in the operating rules of the companies engaged in commercial practices and in the list of rights freely available to their customers, they may refuse to fulfil their obligations. this is not right it must be counteracted and, in the case of certain travel services, their customers must be made clear about the cost and the existence or absence of any additional services for which they would have to pay later for some unknown reason. that is why i support this document. thank you.
in writing. ‒ one of the many strengths and goals of the european union is the unrestricted movement of people, goods and services across the borders of the member states. the citizens are increasingly taking advantage of the wide possibilities offered by the digital world, including the purchase of travel online. however, it is very important for citizens to know their rights and options when making such purchases. that is why, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council that strengthens and extends the rights of travellers and imposes an obligation on every traveller to be informed of his rights in a transparent and comprehensible manner, thus strengthening the protection of consumer rights. this proposal provides for clear information to be provided before the traveller concludes a contract and purchases a package, so that in the event of a complication the traveller is clearly aware of who will be liable and what rights apply to him. the right of travellers to terminate the relevant contracts is also extended. this is a great benefit for eu travellers and also for the tourism industry, as the outdated regulation is replaced by transparent, uniform rules that promote trust and hence trade.
in writing. ‒ it would certainly be logical that this type of cookie marking any payment services offered by companies online would not be selected automatically. if a consumer wants to make a choice, he or she will do it themselves. while profit-making is one of the main principles of the existence of companies engaged in commercial practices in a free market economy, as in any other economic system, it must be carried out in accordance with the law and the principles of fairness. otherwise, both the reputation and the profits of such companies will suffer, as customers will, at least on a simple principle, try to start using the services of competitors, even if they pay more and the dishonest company has monopoly status.
in writing. given the significant changes in the tourism sector, particularly with the increase in the number of internet users, it is clear that the current legislation on complex travel since 1990 does not correspond to the current situation. today's consumers are increasingly interested in choosing the various elements of a package themselves, often from multiple linked travel service providers, by doing so online. this creates so-called 'snow zones' where consumers are not clear about what protection they are entitled to in the event of problems, and traders are not clear about their obligations. unfortunately, latvia has also had cases where travellers arrive at their destination and find that the hotel or service they were promised is not nearly as good as what was promised. on the other hand, contacting a travel agency, especially if the trip was purchased online, reveals that the agency is bankrupt or unreachable. i am therefore pleased that the updated legislation will protect even more european travellers by covering those who book their holidays using digital media. these travellers will not only be better informed about their rights, but also protected in the event of unforeseen problems before or during the journey. the revised rules require that, before the traveller concludes a contract, organisers and traders will have to clearly indicate what is included in the package, inform about the rights and also indicate who will be responsible for the various complications.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement reached by the parliament and the council on a new regulation for complex travel, as the new directive adapts the old rules adopted in 1990 to the possibilities of today's digital market, where many consumers buy travel services online. in the digital age, it is important that consumers who buy travel online are as well protected as those who buy from travel agents. consumer protection will now extend not only to package holidays purchased from travel agencies, as it has been the case until now, but also to so-called 'complex journeys' purchased by consumers online, mainly through websites offering various travel services such as air tickets, hotel reservations and car rentals. the same applies to services advertised and sold by the trader to the customer after the customer has already purchased the basic service from the trader (for example, an offer to rent a car that appears on the airline's website after the purchase of a flight ticket). the new rules cover areas such as the right of travellers to terminate a contract and to receive detailed information on who is liable in difficult situations. the new directive introduces more clarity in the various problem situations where it has been unclear from which operator to claim liability and how the traveller is protected.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the legislative innovations covered by this resolution are undoubtedly among the most anticipated by the citizens of the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the roaming charges. in april 2016, prices for calls, sms and internet data flows will be further reduced. the roadside charges shall not exceed one quarter of the current maximum tariff. and that is good, and that is commendable! but within the community, travellers from the european union's member states will no longer have to pay more than at home. of course, the principle of free competition will continue to exist and any user will be able to choose any provider he or she likes, but the number of people who buy different sim cards for use will likely be significantly reduced. of course, there are still some questions about this plan, but this initiative is certainly to be welcomed. thank you.
in writing. ‒ one of the main and primary objectives and challenges of the european union has always been to create a genuine single market where people, goods and services can flow freely across the internal borders of the european union, thus ensuring both the sustainability and competitiveness of industry and the possibility of providing citizens with the widest possible choice and lower prices. unfortunately, despite these efforts, this market is still fragmented in different areas and there are various constraints and obstacles that prevent the single market from functioning effectively. this is also the case in the telecommunications market. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a detailed explanation of the reasons for the commission's decision to initiate the procedure. it is very important that this regulation also provides for a review of wholesale roaming prices by the middle of next year, as without this it would be difficult to ensure that prices in local housing markets do not rise, and this review will have brought the eu telecommunications market closer to greater convergence. secondly, this regulation also provides for the principle of net neutrality, which requires that internet service providers treat all types of content equally without discrimination and blocking for commercial purposes, and will encourage providers of a secure environment to invest in the future. in the light of all these arguments, i supported the regulation on the abolition of roaming surcharges and net neutrality in the eu at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
in writing. the abolition of the subscription fee has been a long-awaited event for the citizens of the european union. the guarantee that the latvian presidency of the council of europe has managed to reach an agreement, thereby bringing this issue to a conclusion. although the eu has already restricted roaming tariff thresholds in the past, they were still quite high, especially as regards the use of data services. therefore, most travellers have so far chosen to use no or minimal mobile phones when outside their own country. the benefits of ending roaming charges will be significant: it will strengthen the eu's competitiveness, provide lower prices for consumers and open up new opportunities for businesses. it is estimated that the benefits of a regulated telecommunications sector could be around eur 520 billion. from the consumer's point of view, it is important that there are no additional costs for using the telephone while travelling or working in other eu countries, as the rates will be exactly the same as at home. the principle of net neutrality enshrined in the new law is also significant. this will ensure that internet speeds cannot be tailored to the provider paying more, as all types of internet content, applications and services will have to provide the same data rate.
in writing. ‒ it is positive that after the hard work of the latvian presidency, agreement was reached between the council and parliament on the new telecommunications legislative package on the abolition of roaming surcharges and the first rules on the open internet in the eu. it provides that, as from 30 april 2016, roaming charges will be significantly reduced in the european union, but that, from 15 june 2017, these charges will be completely abolished: that is, consumers will be able to use mobile services for the same price as at home while in other eu countries. this gradual reduction of charges is also particularly important to prevent telecommunications operators from charging these charges on the prices of local mobile calls. the second important element is the open internet rules, which require operators to provide all data flows equally when providing internet access services, allowing blocking or speeding up of data flows only in exceptional cases (for example, when necessary to prevent cyber-attacks or data flow congestion). while it might have been desirable to see stronger principles of open internet and net neutrality in the new regulation, so that all internet data flows are treated equally, regardless of sender, receiver, type, content, device, service or application, voting now for additional amendments would mean amending and effectively rejecting the difficult agreement reached by the council and parliament, which would in turn mean pulling the switch on the proposed abolition of roaming charges, which would make life easier for many european consumers, as well as latvian consumers.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. at the first plenary session in strasbourg in october, an oral question was already discussed on the death penalty itself, which was put to the council of ministers by my colleague lena valenciano on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. i would like to repeat what i said a few weeks ago. in the modern world, especially given the ever-present possibility of imposing the death penalty on people who may have nothing in common with the crimes committed against them, there is an undignified practice to be avoided. the death penalty is an undignified practice, and every year hundreds, even thousands, of people lose their lives in the european union, and while many of them have indeed committed quite bloody crimes, the death penalty should not be the only option for punishment. often, life imprisonment can be a more effective form of punishment. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the taxation of goods and services in the european union has been a very topical issue in recent years and will continue to be so in the future. it is the complexity, the importance and the differences in national tax policies in the 28 member states that have made this issue one of the eu's biggest challenges. i support greater coordination of tax rulings by the eu member states and therefore i voted in favour of this advisory report on the proposal for a mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters. however, i consider it very important to maintain the tax legislation of the member states as an exclusive national competence. the eu therefore needs greater transparency and cooperation between member states on eu tax rulings. the complexity of taxation and the different national laws allow both multinational corporations and smaller companies to successfully develop schemes to avoid taxation in full, thus distorting competition and promoting uneven playing field between member states. increased transparency and coordination could prevent tax revenues from one member state from being unfairly reduced as a result of the tax policies of another member state.
my fellow citizens! first of all, i would like to thank mr fernandez and mr depre for the great work they have done in drawing up the draft budget. it is generally geared towards development and job creation, so almost half of the funding is earmarked for investment and job creation. i am also pleased that 500 million has been allocated to compensate the dairy farmers. migration challenges require a lot of additional funding. however, they should not be financed at the expense of existing programmes. the russian military action in ukraine, the incursions into the airspace of the baltic states and finland, and the mass influx of refugees and migrants across the mediterranean have all highlighted the importance of well-protected external borders. they should therefore be strengthened jointly by all member states by budgeting the appropriate resources. the increase in foreign policy funds to be used to address the causes of migration and conflict in third countries is welcome. it is essential to continue to fund projects in science, research, reducing youth unemployment and developing entrepreneurship, at least at the current level, under the cohesion policy. at the same time, you need to think about saving money for the future. firstly, by reducing the cost of red tape in the european institutions, but secondly, by finally agreeing on a single seat for the european parliament. thank you.
in writing. ‒ fishing and related activities are one of the oldest and most traditional occupations in europe and the world, wherever there is or has been access to the world's oceans. given that several marine species are at risk today, including those in the mediterranean and the black sea, and that the vast majority of europeans regularly consume the wealth of the seas in one way or another, it is perfectly clear and logical that there should be a clearly designed legislative system, which takes into account the historical, cultural and other characteristics of the individual member states, to regulate the exploitation of marine resources. to guarantee the public's access to marine resources, member states may be granted various types of derogations from time to time, where this is of course economically and morally acceptable. the main thing is that it should be possible to guarantee fully, in parallel, the effective protection of endangered marine species, while respecting the principles contained in these derogations in the context of their implementation. i would also like to express my positive attitude towards the emphasis in this draft legislative resolution that the 'provisions set out therein should not be regarded or used as a precedent for future legislation'. given the rather specific and often fragile situation of marine resources in the case of different european regions, it would not be entirely reasonable to use these rules as a precedent the specific characteristics of similar marine resource extraction in this area should be examined on a case-by-case basis. the point is quite simple: if we don't take care of nature ourselves, who will?
in writing. ‒ i supported the rejection of the european commission’s proposal for national bans on genetically-modified foodstuff and feedstuff due to the serious concerns about the far-reaching consequences for the functioning of the internal market for gm food and feed and for the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. in practical terms this proposal would be close to impossible to implement because it fails to ensure the necessary legal certainty and adequate tools for member states and border controls no longer exist within the eu agricultural sector. for food and feed import we cannot apply the same logic as for the new legislation to opt-out of authorisations for cultivating gmos.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted against the european commission's (ec) proposal to amend the regulation on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i consider the introduction of genetically modified food to be a step in the right direction, as the impact of these products on human health and the environment is still not fully understood. i support the subsidiarity of each member state in this matter, i.e. we can choose what we produce and what processes we use in the production process, but the current ec proposal is not satisfactory because it does not provide any clarity on how each member state could enforce prohibitions in practice, thus jeopardising the european union's fundamental values the free movement of people, goods and services in the eu and the single internal market, which is one of the main objectives and cornerstones of the european union. supporting such a proposal could even lead to border controls, which would be not just a step backwards, but a marathon backwards. i therefore believe that the commission should do its job more carefully, analysing the implications of the proposals and finally proposing what would really be an adequate solution to the issue at hand.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the regulation prepared by the european commission is to enable member states to decide on the restriction or prohibition of the use of genetically modified food on their territory. although i can largely agree with the committee responsible that it is not clear how the mechanisms proposed in this draft regulation would be implemented in the eu single market and whether they would not lead to the reintroduction of border controls, i could not support the vote to reject the proposal for a regulation altogether, because i believe that work on this proposed regulation must continue such regulation is necessary and member states must be given the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos authorised at eu level in their territory, as was done with regard to the ban on the cultivation of gmos already introduced by latvia. if countries are not given this option, then, in the interests of large food producers and importers, the eu has not yet succeeded in agreeing on a ban on gm food, and will not succeed in the future, no matter how critical and cautious consumers are. therefore, work on a regulation should continue, providing for a harmonised control measure to monitor restricted or prohibited gmo food in the eu internal market and identifying specific, uniform criteria, not contrary to the principles of the internal market and the eu's international commitments, on the basis of which member states could prohibit or restrict gmo food in their territory.
in writing. ‒ legislation in the european union often does not keep pace with scientific and technological developments, as was the case with the new food regulation adopted in 1997, and the food industry has changed considerably since then. that is why i voted in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. this regulation provides for new and uniform eu rules to facilitate and simplify the procedure to be followed for the registration of novel foods. these provisions will significantly reduce the costs and the length of the procedure required for the food safety assessment procedure and for obtaining an eu authorisation. the regulation also provides that in certain cases, in the absence of clarity on the safety of products, the european food safety authority will be obliged to assess the effects of those foods and products on human health. i believe that harmonising the rules and reducing red tape in these rules is also a step towards the eu single market.
in writing. like any other sector, the food sector has been affected by innovation, with new food products entering the market both engineered and long-established in the diets of other countries around the world. i therefore welcome the establishment of a common european union procedure for the assessment and authorisation of novel foods. a single authorisation system will make authorisation quicker and more efficient, while maintaining a high level of protection of public health. it is expected that the establishment of a centralised system will significantly reduce the time required for the assessment and authorisation of these foods and the overall costs for operators in this process. at the same time, i believe that the standards for food evaluation must be very high to avoid products being placed on the market whose safety is not fully established or which are still at an experimental stage. all novel foods or food ingredients must be scientifically tested or have a history of safe use in other countries. i also believe that, in parallel with support for innovation, it is necessary to protect traditional products whose manufacturing methods have been handed down from generation to generation or which are typical of a particular geographical region.
in writing. ‒ the european regional policy, also often referred to as cohesion policy, is one of the largest components of the annual budget of the european union the common agricultural policy is usually the only one larger. the main idea is to level the playing field across the union, thereby raising the general level of well-being and common development and, of course, making the regions more competitive. europe 2020 is closely linked to cohesion policy, as it focuses on objectives such as employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. but while it would be very desirable to see the regions of the member states becoming much more similar in terms of their multilateral development, especially in terms of income levels, by the end of this decade, it will take a few more decades before this becomes more or less a reality. this report noted, inter alia, that in various cases detailed information on regional developments and situations in different areas was not available. it is hoped that this will change for the better in the near future, as it is not possible to design and coordinate regional policy effectively enough without a concrete and specific factual knowledge of the functioning of each individual sector in the regions of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ the european structural and investment funds are an integral and one of the most important parts of cohesion policy, through which resources are invested on a regional basis in the development of the economy, the social sphere and other sectors. therefore, a rational approach based on a general analysis of economic governance in the context of the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation is absolutely necessary. article 23 concerns, inter alia, the action of the member states in the application of the european structural and investment funds in cases where it may be necessary to take decisions on the rescheduling or suspension of the process of using the resources of the funds due to non-compliance by the beneficiaries of such resources. while transparency and enforcement play an important role in the governance of the european union, as in any other body, it is often very strict rules that lead to a significant increase in bureaucratic burden and related costs. as the thematic concentration rules foreseen in the eu cohesion policy 2014-2020 allow for some flexibility in terms of the implementation of the needs of the eu member states and regions, the full implementation of article 23 in practice may not be compatible with this flexibility, thus partly jeopardising the effective implementation of the cohesion policy measures themselves. in the light of the above and of the report itself, i join the call on the european commission to apply the principle of proportionality to the extent possible in the application of article 23 so as, inter alia, not to conflict with other aspects of its coordinated policies, including, in particular, cohesion policy.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. sometimes it's important to remind yourself of what you know in order to find solutions to problems. what do we know? the european union is not a state. we have no central government, no serious budget to help us overcome any crisis. instead, we are 28 independent countries that are working together, and we have 28 different national budgets. but it's also a fact that we're all connected to each other. this means that if one member state is in crisis, it inevitably affects other member states, possibly even all of the european union. it is therefore important that we agree on the things that make our cooperation stronger and more resilient to any future crises. firstly, it is important for us to continue the so-called european semester, during which we coordinate the procedure for adopting national budgets. but that is not all! we need to move forward both by strengthening our banking union and by strengthening our economic surveillance. that is why i support the commission's initiative to strengthen our economic union. we must not become a country, but we must realize that we are closely linked to each other. it is the only way to avoid future crises. thank you.
the blue card issue. thank you, mrs. toom, for accepting my blue card request. you mentioned the language requirements for the unemployed. perhaps you could tell us in 30 seconds more about the requirements that are being implemented - i understand - in your home country, estonia? thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. five years ago, we in the european union set very ambitious targets to achieve by 2020. i'm going to talk about just one of those goals right now. that we want to increase investment in science and development to 3% of european gdp. where are we now? we're only at about 2% of gdp investing in science and development. and i think that's the problem with us. why is that a problem? we are not in a vacuum in europe. we are not self-sufficient, even for the nearly 550 million of us who have. the european union is competing with the united states, china and the rest of the world. and where does this competition take place, and how does she do it in the most complete way? directly with goods, products that are produced with high added value or based on high technologies. and for this technology to exist, it has to be a science base. so to increase our competitiveness, we have to be very careful that this money for science and development is going through programmes like horizon 2020.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. in latvian, we have a saying: "there is no plowing with the dieges". when we think about entrepreneurship, all of us who have been entrepreneurs know that without funding, you can't grow a business. in the european union, smes employ more than 90% of all employees. smes are in fact the backbone of our economy. if we want our economy to grow, we need small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to grow. what's the problem? the difficulty is that smes are dependent on bank loans for 75% of their financing. but now, especially after the crisis, banks are reluctant to lend that money, and those loans are getting more expensive. so what can we do to help our small businesses? i think there are two main things that we need to do. first, access to direct bank credit needs to be improved. but secondly, and very importantly, we need to help small and medium-sized enterprises to find non-bank financing through such mechanisms as investment in their equity capital, using venture capital and capital market mechanisms. i therefore strongly support the commission's initiative to create this capital markets union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. an effective national community (and this is particularly true of the euro area, given its single currency) is not possible without the exchange of high-quality information. of course, it is understandable that each country has different types of specific data, which would be illogical to share even with the closest allies, as it would jeopardise national security. in the case of tax information, particularly within the european union, which is by its very nature geared towards closer cooperation and mutual integration, the situation is much more ambiguous. member states should exchange at least cross-border tax rulings and agreements on transfer pricing. given the european union's focus on combating tax fraud on assets, such an exchange of information would allow it to increase the effectiveness of the relevant countermeasures and, in principle, to make the cooperation of the member states in the financial field much more qualitative.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. while there is still undeniably scope for much more effective results, especially given that our member states are planning to increase their investment in science to at least one and a half per cent of their gdp by 2020, the european union is already a world leader in terms of investment in technological development and science in general. in particular, the joint undertaking 'artemis' focuses on the development of high-tech embedded computing systems and the development of formats for their use. as such computer systems are used in automotive manufacturing, industrial automation, telecommunications, various types of electronic and health, medical equipment and many other areas, the need for investment in general and the importance of the existence of this joint undertaking should not be underestimated. i am very pleased that the 'artemis' operation was considered to be sufficiently successful in the 2013 budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european institute of innovation and technology, as we know, has been in existence for seven years to promote the competitiveness of the member states by stimulating technological innovation in the fields of science, education and business in the member states. and the main objective of the activity is to bring together excellent university research centres and companies and to motivate and coordinate their mutual cooperation. an important aspect of this activity is the emergence of cross-border public-private partnerships. the report we considered and voted on noted, among other things, that the european institute of innovation and technology would provide resources by making appropriate and efficient use of the financial investments made in it. on the other hand, there is a problem of staff turnover, which the institute is nevertheless gradually addressing. but overall i take this report very positively and look forward to the further results of the european institute of innovation and technology.
thank you, mr president. the eniac joint undertaking, like its merged and reviewed joint undertaking artemis, is engaged in the preparation and subsequent implementation of a research programme aimed at fostering innovation in nanoelectronic skills with a view to their application in a wide range of practical fields. the joint undertaking was set up at the end of 2007 and its founding members include both the european commission and the association for nanoelectronics measures, as well as all 13 member states of the european union. unfortunately, my country latvia was not on that list, although it is currently a member of eniac. looking at eniac's budgets over the last few years, latvia is quite inactive in the potential use of this joint undertaking compared to other countries. whereas in my country, only 0.6% of gdp is currently invested in innovation and ... (end of speaking time)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for decades, the european union has been built, reformed and developed in a structure whose effective functioning requires close and active cooperation between its governing institutions. firstly, it concerns the european commission itself, as well as the european parliament, the council of ministers or the council and the european council, and it is perfectly understandable that often the representatives of each institution, politicians or bureaucratic officials have their own interests which they try to propose and implement. however, they must not in any way prejudice the normal functioning of the union, which in this particular case also concerns the implementation of budgetary rules. as the report of the committee on budgetary control shows, cooperation between the council and the european parliament in the financial field is very inadequate and, in accordance with the primary legislative instruments of the european union, it is the european parliament which has to approve the annual budget of the union, and we have done so.
thank you, chairman. while the fight against ebola continues, i am pleased that parliament voted in favour of the report prepared by the committee on development. it is with great regret that epidemics similar to ebola continue to afflict various regions of the world, particularly developing countries, particularly africa. in this connection, i welcome the report's positive attitude both to the recently developed and already effectively used vaccines against ebola and to the 10% increase in the budget of the world health organisation. this will help to respond more effectively to such threats, prevent the onset of epidemics themselves and, where possible, respond more actively to outbreaks that have already occurred. the european union is the world's leading donor of financial and expertise to developing countries, and this is undeniably a very important achievement.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the creation and existence of an effective society and the economic structures that correspond to it are inconceivable without the confidence of the population in the suppliers of goods and services, which undoubtedly also applies to information on the properties of any application product. in particular, it is regrettable that volkswagen has behaved unfairly in the us market in the emissions tests for diesel engines. i therefore agree with the need to organise a thorough examination of the european union market for both volkswagen and other car manufacturers and for diesel and petrol engined vehicles. given that different types of vehicles are among the main factors affecting public health and the climate, productive and regular cooperation between colleagues is of great importance, in particular cooperation between the responsible member states and the institutions of the european union in terms of exchanging information and initiating quality standards.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. firstly, i would like to welcome the timely process of examining the draft budget for the next year. i am pleased that the european union is not among those national or supranational bodies which often adopt their budgets with a serious delay of up to six months, if not more, from the year to which the budget relates. but secondly, competitiveness, job creation, regional development, sustainable growth and the promotion of security - these are by far the most important areas of action for the european union - occupy a prominent place in the new budget. at the same time, i would also like to mention the efforts of the responsible institutions - the commission, the council and the parliament - to rationalise expenditure, including the establishment of such appropriate posts in the union's bureaucratic apparatus. however, it should be noted that the improvement of the efficiency of the use of these financial resources must not be allowed to affect any of the areas necessary for the effective functioning of the european union.
thank you, mr president. it has been said on many occasions that the european union is one of the most bureaucratic institutions in the world. consequently, on the one hand, it would seem absurd to increase the number of judges in the court of justice of the european union for the sole reason that each member state would be able to delegate its own judge. but on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that the right to justice is one of the most precious rights in the european union and that if the european court of justice works effectively, well and in the interests of european citizens, all people, all citizens in the european union, and the image of the european union throughout the world will benefit. i therefore very happily supported the proposed reform, which was a compromise in some ways, and i very happily voted in favour.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for thousands of years, humans have been transforming the properties of cultivated plants and domestic animals according to their own preferences regional, climatic, etc. and the modern use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture, which has been around for over 40 years, is actually a logical continuation of these skills developed over time. of course, in many countries and societies there are concerns about the safety of such organisms, primarily in the area of human health. but the reality is that the european union's agriculture is already to some extent dependent on imports of gm-affected proteins, and thus giving member states the power to control the import and use of gmos within their territories could harm the agricultural sector in one way or another. although it should be noted that this applies firstly to non-organic farms, where the use of gmos is simply unthinkable.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. you are what you eat, as the famous ludwig andreas von feierbach said. it is therefore only logical that people should be clear about what they eat each day. however, when a new food product is introduced to the market, it must go through a series of different instances to be understood as being fit for consumption by the public. of course, each of us is the master of our own happiness and knows better than anyone else what we eat and what we do not eat. however, in the case of foodstuffs to be sold in shops open to the public, it is imperative that they undergo such a procedure of inspection and certification. and since more than 18 years have passed since regulation no 258/97 entered into force, it is clearly time to update it to adapt it to the new realities in both food production and consumer protection, as well as to the increase in the number of member states from 15 to 28 since 1997.
each year, the world's atmosphere is polluted by vast amounts of various compounds. and not just carbon dioxide, but also the negative impact on human health and the economy. from national health welfare costs to overall productivity loss, to agricultural productivity decline. i warmly welcome the idea of this proposal for a directive, the main aim of which is to reform the existing emission reduction commitments of the member states of the european union in the coming years and even decades in such a way as to take account of the current and possible future appropriate situation with regard to sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, methane and other chemical compounds emitted. but given the very different situation that has developed since the beginning of the century, it seems logical and timely to amend the maximum emission limit directive neg directive .
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european union's governance structure is closely linked to and generally based on democratic principles, since it is the citizens of the union who are entitled to vote who give it legitimacy, both in the case of the national authorities and in the case of the transnational bodies in the european union, first and foremost in the european parliament. in principle, therefore, the creation of a european citizens' initiative, whose roots can be traced back even earlier than 1 april 2012 (the date of its entry into force), is one of the most significant manifestations of direct democracy in our community. the idea behind this initiative, as set out in the lisbon treaty, is that one million citizens from at least one quarter of the eu member states, collecting their signatures, will have the right to submit legislative proposals to the european commission within one year in the areas falling within its competence. but unfortunately, it has to be admitted that the level of awareness among european citizens is very low, but overall, of course, the european citizens' initiative can be seen as very positive.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the adriatic and ionian seas, as part of the mediterranean basin, have been one of the most important regions of europe and its neighbours in trade, politics, culture and many other areas for many years from the phoenicians, greeks, hebrews, romans and many other peoples and their ancestors to the present day. i warmly welcome and support the establishment of the third macro-regional strategy launched within the european union. that's good. given that the adriatic and ionian seas also include the western balkans a region that has experienced state collapse and insurrection, civil war, mass emigration, economic collapse and other hardships over the last decade, a european union strategy could certainly help to create a strong positive momentum in this region. but understandably, wrinkles are not so easily healed, let alone overcome. but there is another tool that could help us on this difficult path, and it would be very useful.
in writing. ‒ the european police college can be described as an institution which also deals with the above-mentioned tasks. in all our 28 member states, their often peculiar systems of justice have evolved and been gradually reformed over many years, even centuries. given that we live in the same house, we need to understand much better the day-to-day functioning of the legal principles of each other. i would like to note one very important moment for me as a member of parliament representing latvia. the latvian police academy was closed a few years ago and for some twenty years it provided professional and academic training for legal experts, including, of course, many people who later became police officers, or even police officers themselves who wanted to improve their qualifications or simply improve their knowledge of various legal subjects. with the closure of the academy, its role was largely taken over by the state police college, which operates a licensed first level professional higher education programme. for example, the average police officer in command can be trained there, supplemented by the relevant specialisation. i am pleased that the lpc is actively cooperating with the european police academy, thus enabling the staff of the latvian police forces to exchange experience with their foreign colleagues and vice versa on a much more centralised basis. it is hoped that this cooperation will only become stronger as the epa reforms.
in writing. ‒ in business, in any country in the world, there is an inherent principle of commercial secrecy which must be respected in order to be able to develop and compete with other companies successfully enough. but it can be accepted that it exists where it concerns various unique goods, patents of invention, recipes for certain foodstuffs and other examples, but not where the scope of taxation and compliance with the principle of transparency are concerned. one of the reasons why the current global financial crisis started about seven or eight years ago was precisely because of this lack of transparency and the rise of speculative activity, including in the real estate market. one of the main efforts of this proposal for a regulation is to address the crisis by promoting greater transparency in securities financing transactions. undertakings, including those primarily engaged in financial transactions, can undeniably also operate successfully in conditions of greater transparency. moreover, any business model must work in such circumstances, since it is clearly a matter of closer cooperation not only with the financial supervisory authorities but also with the partners involved in securities financing transactions, i.e. the direct colleagues of the companies themselves. greater transparency, the introduction of coordinated and standardised principles for the operation of international financial and securities markets and further facilitation are at least a partial guarantee that what happened a few years ago can be, if not completely avoided, then at least resolved in a coordinated and effective manner in the shortest possible time.
in writing. ‒ regardless of the historical and cultural development of any society, the social life format is based on the principles of individualism or collectivism private life must be freely accessible to everyone. this applies not only to the physical presence in one's home, but also to all the information that is available in one form or another and exists about every person from social networks to telephone calls. the implementation of surveillance measures in the case of persons suspected of various types of crime or of any terrorist activity may, of course, be allowed, but it must also be done on the basis of the principles of legality and with the authorisation of the court. if the european union and its authorities, and our member states, truly value their commitments to the privacy and other inalienable rights of eu citizens, the mass surveillance facts uncovered in recent years will be both properly investigated and the necessary measures taken to guarantee people the possibility of living without any doubt that someone is following their every step. this also applies to the exchange of personal information with our associates. in other words, i wholeheartedly support this resolution and hope that the responsible institutions will take it into account - not because it comes from the european parliament, but because otherwise the question would be asked - how can one live in a truly legal and secure state or community of states where something like this is allowed?
in writing. ‒ effective economic or other planning and policy implementation is not possible without a general analysis of past results and their consideration for future strategy. i am therefore pleased that we have approved this report of the economic and monetary committee for the first half of 2015. although at least two other reports on the implementation of the european union's regional policy were examined during this session alone, it is clear that the economic development of europe's regions is still very different. the same applies to the economic recovery and the potential growth in the next year. on the one hand, the possibilities of the member states themselves in terms of financial and other available resources also differ considerably. on the other hand, we would like the countries to cooperate more actively and coordinate their respective economic recovery and further development measures both with each other and with the union's supranational institutions, firstly the european commission, which regularly makes various recommendations. of course, budget deficits must not be allowed to increase uncontrollably, thus increasing debt, and also, possibly in defiance of the commitment to a 3% of gdp deficit threshold, member states should certainly devote more of their resources directly to measures to stimulate economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ the basis of any economic system is people working in a variety of professions, i.e. workers. with the gradual reform of the socioeconomic structure of the world's regions over the past few decades, large numbers of people have become unemployed and - worse - remain unemployed for increasingly long periods, often longer than a year or a year and a half. moreover, it applies to people with a wide range of skills. this is not normal and it is up to the responsible supranational institutions of the european union and the member states, especially those with a long history of this problem, to do their utmost to eliminate it. it is understandable that this cannot be achieved in a month or even a year, but the sooner tens or even hundreds of thousands of the longterm unemployed are reintegrated into the labour market, the better. i also support the commission's proposal to set up a monitoring system to monitor the effectiveness of the implementation processes for the necessary measures. it is not enough to simply allocate financial resources to this objective. comprehensive programmes should be developed to provide retraining, knowledge-building, necessary assistance and other objectives for the long-term unemployed. of course, in our member states such measures are already being implemented, but unfortunately they cannot be called fully effective, because the same youth unemployment rate is still abnormally high.
in writing. ‒ the main idea of this motion for a resolution is to develop and adopt by the end of this year the legal framework principles on which the operation of so-called drones in the field of civil aviation in the eu would be based. the same applies to the technological development of this sector and the use of global navigation systems in drone operations. what's really important here is that all of this is specifically for civilian, not military-type drones. in the latter case, it is up to the member states to adopt the rules governing their respective national practices, while in civil matters the european union's supranational institutions could make a positive contribution to the development and implementation of common rules. over the last 10 to 15 years, the development and use of drone systems in civil aviation has intensified to the point that this area can no longer be left unregulated: certification, configuration, interaction between drones and other flying objects (including aircraft and helicopters, i.e. limitation of the height and the areas of flight of drones), exchange and access to information, and the right to collect and disseminate such information in general all these aspects should be standardised long ago. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed,
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the regulation of unmanned aircraft. it is recognised that the european parliament respects the rapid technological progress and feels responsible for the need to create a clear legislative framework for an industry in which the unwitting use of offered devices may pose a safety risk to society. the commission should also be able to assess the compatibility of the measures with the union's internal market, in particular with the internal market, by examining the compatibility of the measures with the internal market and with the internal market. finally, given the success of the latvian drone startup airdog globally, i believe that clear rules and understandable regulation of this fast-growing sector will also help attract investment. although the us dominates the competition in the military sector for drones, european union companies can compete successfully in the commercial segment on the basis of such rules.
in writing. ‒ tourism is one of the most important sectors of the economy of the european union member states. while it accounts for around 10% of gdp in the eu as a whole, the percentage is even higher in different countries, becoming particularly important in the summer or winter months depending on the location of the region. this means that the proper development of tourism, investment, innovation, exchange of expertise, renovation of cultural and historical sites and, of course, environmental protection - all these aspects are very important and cannot be ignored in any case. in particular, the european union is the most visited place in the world when it comes to tourism, and we would not want to pass this outstanding achievement on to anyone else. while i fully support the idea of developing and further implementing a more centralised approach to the development of the tourism sector in all eu member states, it is essential that local specificities and characteristics are always taken into account, however difficult this may be, particularly in terms of human resources. each region is known for something that is particularly relevant to it, which has a major impact on the tourism development strategy in each individual case. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to an undertaking in difficulty. i am very much in favour of the idea of promoting europe as a tourist destination more and more actively both outside and within our community.
in writing. ‒ promoting the safety of citizens is one of the most important tasks of any state or other human-oriented body. in this particular case, the call for the international telecommunications union to consider, at its next conference in geneva, the possibility of allocating a specific frequency to be used for the development of satellite technology for the introduction of global flight monitoring systems is very important and deserves support. there are already various internet-based services in the world which allow any person using the internet to find out information about any aircraft registered in the relevant database with sufficient freedom. for several decades now, the possibility has existed of completely covering the world through a variety of formats of surveillance systems - which is of course already being done, especially in the military field. so it would have been a long time ago to have created something similar, rather than 'waiting' for the same air france af447 or malaysia airlines mh370. in view of the above and of the text of the resolution itself, it is clear that this vote was one of the most important, with all due respect to the others.
mr president, free access to various applications and services is often seen as positive by users due to lack of associated payments. on the other hand, it allows operators to closely cooperate with specific third party service providers by making their services such as app stores, for instance, much more attractive, precisely due to being free of charge. in essence, in relation to competitors this may be seen as discrimination. in this respect, companies employing zero rating practices can be criticised on the grounds of open market distortion due to acting anti-competitively. however, the recently—adopted legislative package does not ban the zero rating practice, and whilst it does, at least partly, antagonise the principles of net neutrality, quite a few end users view the practice positively. even when the monthly data quota is exhausted, zero—rated applications and services would still work as long as the internet signal is accessible.
mamikins (s&d), in writing. ‒ further consistent multisectoral modernisation is needed for the successful optimisation and development of the european union. on the other hand, given the multi-layered and complex nature of our community's governance structure and the many different factors and actors that affect its day-to-day functioning, the exchange of high-quality information between public administrations, businesses and citizens, thus contributing to improving their interoperability, is of great importance and should therefore be continuously promoted. developing methods for addressing strategic and tactical challenges, establishing a common repository of standards, ensuring privacy and security in the exchange of information and further application, simplifying procedures and reducing the level of bureaucracy, encouraging more active inter-institutional cooperation and, most importantly, orientating all these principles towards meeting the needs of the people of the european union these are the principles on which the programme for providing interoperable solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens should be based. the isa2 programme is expected to continue the effective work of its predecessors and further promote inter-institutional and other information exchange and cooperation across eu member states, which could, among other things, also act as a factor in increasing the trust of eu citizens in their governing institutions.
mamikins (s&d), in writing. ‒ the european parliament is the only institution of the european union elected by direct universal suffrage by eu citizens and, according to the laws of the individual member states, by third-country nationals (or nationals of other member states) on the basis of the length of their residence in the territory of the country. given the important role played by this institution in the governance of the community and the fact that it was long overdue to adapt its elections to the realities of the day, i support the motion for a resolution. in my country, for almost a quarter of a century, there has been a very specific category of people who have no right to vote in municipal, parliamentary or european elections. these are the so-called underage people, or aliens, as they're called. based on statistics available at the beginning of 2015, the number of persons with disabilities in latvia is currently slightly over 262 thousand people 12.15% of the total population. 262 thousand people many of whom have lived in latvia since the end of world war ii or, having been born here in the last 70 years, worked, paid taxes, built the local economy and actively participated in various areas of life cannot vote for any election at all. our neighbours in igau, where the category of persons with disabilities has also been established since the early 1990s, can at least vote in local elections. in my country, our underage can't even do that.
in writing. ‒ i did not support parliament's position in the vote on the reform of the european union's electoral law, voting against. i consider that this report, jointly drafted by the group of the party of european socialists and the group of the european people's party, which also includes the idea of creating a single electoral area, is an attempt to develop european federalism, which is in clear contradiction with my own views and those of my group in the european parliament, the group of the european people's party and the national alliance. in addition to the fact that these proposed amendments would reduce the independence of the european union countries, they would also make it difficult to hold elections. the report recommends that the voter register be completed at the latest eight weeks before election day. this is in clear contrast to the policy of the latvian cvk, which is more hostile to the voter, bringing the time before the election closer to the day when the voter could still change the intended appointment. the proposal to lower the voting age to 16 is hasty and not sufficiently discussed, and a few months ago the saeima of the republic of latvia rejected a proposal to introduce the right to vote at 16 in local elections. i also consider that the proposal to set up a european-wide institution - the eu's 'central electoral commission' - is not financially viable.
in writing. ‒ the european union's aviation sector, like similar sectors elsewhere in the world, is currently undergoing massive changes not seen for decades. they are caused by increased competition, worker rights, safety factors, economic hardship, the volatility of resources and fuel prices, and a host of other factors. the european commission's 'aviation package' plan, due to be adopted by the end of this year, calls for active efforts, with a particular focus on further incentive actions, to increase the competitiveness of the eu aviation sector in relation to other global airlines and their associated sectors. given the importance of aviation not only to the eu economy but also to social life and other sectors, the adoption of this legislative package is clearly essential. moreover, it would certainly be worthwhile not only to promote the competitiveness of our aviation industry, but also to reform it and adapt it more and more to modern realities, namely, among other things, to protect the rights of consumers of its services more effectively and to promote general safety - both on the planes themselves and at the airports and other associated facilities.
on behalf of the ppe group - i'm not sure. the epp group naturally supports the commission's vision of an energy union. this is our attempt to create a truly free market, to increase competition in energy across the european union, to reduce our dependence on imports, to reduce co2 emissions and to increase our energy security, and therefore security of supply. in this connection, i would like to emphasise two points. firstly, commissioner, you are talking about reforming the emissions trading system. this is very important. we need to reduce co2 emissions in the european union, but i ask you to be very balanced, balancing our goal of reducing co2 emissions with our goal of preserving industry and jobs in the european union. i can give you an example of the steel industry. the steel industry as such is not environmentally friendly. we all know this, but we in europe consume and will use steel in our car industry, in construction and elsewhere. so we'll just buy it somewhere. if this industry is destroyed outside the european union, we will not consume less steel, but will probably produce it where there is no control at all. so, when you're trying to reduce co2, you're balancing it out with industry. and the second thing i would like to emphasize is exactly what you also mentioned about the nord stream pipeline expansion project. i would urge the commission to look very carefully at whether this project is at all compatible with our objectives of creating an energy union, because we see that it would not increase our security of energy supply, on the contrary it would increase our dependence on one supplier, russia. thank you for your attention.
mamikins (s&d), in writing. ‒ when a case - in this case legislation - no longer fulfils its function, there are different options for how to proceed. the first is to modify this legislation to reflect modern realities and to continue to serve effectively the original objectives. the second option is to repeal these acts if they are already completely outdated and cannot continue to fulfil their primary functions. the third option (which often goes hand in hand and in fact complements the second) adopting new legislation to take over the role of an obsolete act. in particular, the proposed regulation (former decision) was necessary to repeal 11 decisions relating to the functioning of the schengen area and to the tests of the second generation schengen information system, which had already lost their validity more than two years ago, when the latter entered into force. among these 11 decisions were those relating to visa policy, the fight against illegal immigration, the issuing of schengen visas or the exchange of statistical information. while these cases are undoubtedly very important and essential for the functioning of the schengen area, let alone for the european union's own action in the field of border protection, all these decisions are outdated and have been replaced by more recent legislation, so that there was simply no point in keeping them in the midst of active legal acts.
mamikins (s&d), in writing. ‒ as with the first of three votes today on the repeal of certain obsolete legislation, it is difficult to disagree with the european commission's initial proposal to repeal some decisions and one declaration. while these laws, such as those on combating drug trafficking or the abduction of minors, cover various aspects of the functioning of the schengen area and are clearly essential to guaranteeing security both at our borders and within the european union, they are outdated and have not only failed to fulfil their functions but are still in general, as a matter of course, part of the eu's legislative base. in the case of the decision on road traffic offences, which the rapporteur has additionally added to this list, it is not in fact fully effective, although a considerable amount of time has passed. it should also be noted that the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the commission and the council on the reduction and gradual simplification of the acquis communautaire by repealing obsolete acts, which has been in force for almost 12 years, is one of the main mechanisms for streamlining the community's management structure. it is therefore only to be welcomed that this agreement continues to function today, at least partially balancing the ever-increasing volume and overlap of eu legislation.
mamikins (s&d), in writing. ‒ this regulation was about repealing legislation that in some cases was almost 19 years old. however, i would like to note one issue that has been very much discussed by politicians, experts and the public at large over the last week and a half. although this regulation abolished the same single action on the counter-terrorism knowledge directory, as there is a more modern version of the act specifying cooperation, it is likely that, in the context of the mass killings both in paris and over sinai, both in africa and in syria and iraq, as well as elsewhere in the world, the acts concerning cooperation between the relevant member states' authorities and member states as a whole in the field of counter-terrorism are clearly outdated or simply ineffective. even if one were to assume that these acts are still relevant from a legislative point of view, the events in paris suggest that from a practical point of view this is not the case at all. although it is not part of the issues under discussion today, it is worth noting that there are quite a number of european union acts which, being obsolete, never came fully into force, were functionally replaced by others for a long time, etc. without a doubt, given the complexity of our community's governance structure, we must pay close attention to each piece of legislation that is proposed to be repealed, so as not to create any problems.
mamikins (s&d), in writing. ‒ two years ago, following lengthy discussions, the commission for the conservation of southern tunas amended its resolution on an enlarged commission, which would allow regional economic integration organisations to join its work. given that the european union, not to mention the self-evident active participation of its member states, has for some time wanted to participate fully in the work of the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna by becoming a full member of that commission, support for this draft decision was entirely logical. the european commission is actively involved in various regional and international bodies whose tasks include both the monitoring of marine resources and the protection of endangered species. it is well known that the same catch quotas within our community are partly geared to this very objective. southern bluefin tuna is classified as critically endangered by the international union for the conservation of nature and natural resources, which makes it essential to implement measures relating to its rationally limited catch and conservation. i cannot say that in the case of my country latvia this balance fully exists, especially in the current situation of quotas and embargoes by the russian federation.
the forthcoming insurance intermediation directive is one of the most important steps to improve the protection of the rights of citizens of the european union. this applies to natural and legal persons who travel, work or simply reside in the territory of their member state as well as outside its borders. the protection received must be of the same quality, regardless of where the policyholder is located. the same applies to information, advice and, in general, any other assistance which the insured person may receive from the policy issuer and its associated bodies. a very important aspect of the draft directive is also the promotion of free competition between insurance distributors and the promotion of the ability of insurance intermediaries to operate throughout the community. as regards the dissemination of information and the guarantee of access to it, it should also be borne in mind that this directive could help to level the playing field where the consumer is faced with costs that are also previously unknown or not clearly identified. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, i voted on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance intermediation. this act provides for the extension of the scope of this directive to all service providers, who should be subject to it. the rules on supervision and sanctions for these providers have been harmonised in the european union. the new rules introduce a product information document to better inform the buyer about the service he is purchasing. improvements in the law will give consumers greater protection in all member states. they are also expected to allow the consumer to choose the most appropriate insurer for himself at the lowest price. in the light of the above considerations, i vote in favour of the proposal for this directive.
children are our future. these are not empty words for the very simple reason that if you don't have children, you don't have a future. straight to the point. therefore, the development of any policy and its consistent implementation must be based on the very principle that we must guarantee our children's need for, and access to, a quality life, education, as well as further employment and active participation in the life of the state and society. unfortunately, despite the number of projects and programmes implemented and the range of legislative acts, the number of children living in poverty in the european union today is increasing every year. given the complex nature of poverty as a phenomenon, our member states, together with the relevant eu institutions and bodies, in particular the european commission, need to do much more to guarantee children's access to food, clothing, housing, quality education and so on. we have to fight for those values. i'll back you up.
the european union's cohesion policy is not simply an instrument for gradually equalising the different levels of development of the regions of the member states, which is also a good thing to do, but it is even more necessary to reduce the degree of social marginalisation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, as it could provide a positive impetus to tackling the problem of long-term social marginalisation by better synchronising the relevant policies between the european union institutions and its member states respectively, and will of course allow us all to improve the quality of information gathering in this area, to better understand for the average person where the complexity of the situation is, where the level of complexity is, and where efforts to tackle the existing problems need to be intensified. thank you.
the european union has recently been positioning itself as something much bigger than just an intergovernmental community or a transnational organisation. today, it is already an integral part of the structure and institutions of world government. and the european union often positions itself as one of the world's most active advocates of the un's basic principles in the fight against global warming, conflict resolution, ending discrimination, cultural exchange and so on. although the un has not always been effective, and still is today, because of the varying levels of conflict and disagreement among its member states, since the end of the second world war, the largest organization in world history has been one of the primary actors in international relations. this leads to the logical conclusion that the european union, as one of the main funders of the un institutions, should actively participate in and influence the work of the un. thank you.
my fellow citizens! first of all, i would like to thank mr fernandez and mr deprez for the great work they have done on the draft budget, especially in the negotiations with the council, which are always very difficult. ensure that regional policy, the most important instrument for the development of the new member states, remains a priority for the coming year. people can look forward to jobs, support for science and innovation. i am pleased that 500 million has been allocated to compensate the dairy farmers. the mobilisation of funds to address the refugee crisis through the flexibility instrument is welcome, as the terrorist attacks in paris once again demonstrate that member states must join forces to protect citizens who unfortunately cannot feel safe at the moment. it is clear that the open door principle declared by some countries is questionable. immediate identification and return of migrants who do not meet the criteria for refugee status is needed. the protection of the european union's external borders is of paramount importance in order to prevent illegal immigration. the capacity of frontex needs to be significantly strengthened. this should be one of our long-term priorities, also reflected in the multiannual budget. the increase in foreign policy funding is welcome. however, they must ensure that these resources reach the right people, improving the quality of life and resolving conflicts in third countries. at the same time, however, savings must be made by reducing the administrative costs of the european institutions. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in europe, we have set ourselves the very noble, correct goal of reducing co2 emissions. but at the same time we are aware that in europe we are in a world competitive environment and perhaps this objective we have set ourselves is a little bit at odds with our need to remain competitive in our world. i will speak specifically about one industry, the steel industry. we know that the steel industry is not a clean industry. we know that. but our steel industry employs some 300 000 people in europe as a whole, and as a whole we are the world's second largest producer after china. so if this industry becomes uncompetitive, we'll just use steel by buying it from somewhere else. the automotive industry, shipbuilding, building construction - steel is absolutely everywhere in our lives. so i ask the commission, in view of what you are doing, particularly with the emissions trading system, to look carefully at the targets for reducing co2 emissions and the need to keep european industry in europe. leaving will not reduce waste, but will only increase unemployment in europe. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ‒ given the multidimensional and structural complexity of the european union's governance system, regular audits of its budgetary and programming execution are indispensable to guarantee the highest possible transparency of the system and the most efficient achievement of the annual objectives and tasks set. in support of draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, we would also like to support the view expressed in this parliamentary report that, in addition to the relevant commitments made in relation to the management of the refugee and migrant crisis, as well as for the trust funds for africa and syria, un agencies and other purposes, member states should implement those commitments as soon as possible. the solution to problems may vary, but the logical course is not to wait for them to come knocking at our door but to try to encourage efforts to deal with them in a preventative manner. if this is not possible, because the problems are already here, we must not be passive and imagine that we are not affected by this, especially when there are very specific commitments to be fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ while the eu and its institutional predecessors have been a welcome destination for migrants and refugees for decades, the situation in the last year has overturned almost all, even the most dire, predictions. this meant that the community budget adopted for the following year was no longer adequate to meet the challenges faced on a daily basis by the institutions it financed and the tasks it carried out. the existence of a budget support instrument in the european union as a flexibility instrument will allow the budget deficit resulting from this crisis to be sufficiently effectively addressed. on the other hand, i would like to join the call in the report for an increase in the flexibility of the flexibility instrument, as it is currently not possible to carry over the corresponding funds to 2017 in order to consistently exceed the maximum annual amount for the flexibility instrument. we simply do not want our community to become unwittingly at least partially unprepared for potential challenges, the number of which, as one can imagine, based on some precedents of recent years, is not likely to decrease for the time being.
in writing. what is forewarned is also prepared. the adoption of this draft parliamentary resolution was therefore entirely logical, as it would make it possible to increase the effectiveness of the european union solidarity fund in the event that, god forbid, a natural disaster occurred on the territory of the eu member states or their candidate countries in the following year, for which the essf resources would be required. while eur 50 million (actually no more than 10% of the total requested amount and up to a maximum of eur 30 million) may not seem excessive on the scale of the disaster relief, in the event of a crisis, before the rest of the aid reaches its recipient, this money could inevitably cover at least part of the most urgent expenses. the european union solidarity fund has been in operation for 13 years and has helped to deal with the aftermath of natural disasters in different parts of europe. and while i would certainly not wish its resources to be ever needed in principle, i am very pleased that such an instrument exists and continues to play its part in the solidarity and cooperation between the member states of the european union - in peaceful as well as in violent circumstances.
in supporting the adoption of the draft community budget for 2016, would like to express my particular support for the stated aim of regularly reviewing the efficiency of the expenditure of budgetary resources. for example, according to point 36 of the annex to the interinstitutional agreement, representatives of the european parliament, the council and the commission will meet at political level for this purpose at least three times in 2016. of course, at other levels too, including the european parliament's committee on budgets, the various control bodies and elsewhere, the community budget for the next year will be reviewed and analysed much more regularly, so that its implementation is fully in line with the objectives and tasks set. looking at the various cohesion policy budget spending plans, i would like to emphasise that i would very much not want the reduction in spending from the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund or the european social fund and other similar funds to have a negative impact on interregional development. but overall, i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the 2016 budget of the european union at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. i think that the negotiators of the european parliament have achieved a good result in their negotiations with the european council. in this context, i would like to highlight the funding of five new posts for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, whose main task is to monitor wholesale gas prices in the eu. the european union imports more than half of its energy needs, while the regions from which these energy resources come become increasingly unstable, thus threatening the security of energy supplies. the european commission has therefore developed an energy union strategy. in order to achieve the objectives of this strategy, it is important to ensure the functioning of the internal market of the european union, in which the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators plays a major role. however, this important task requires additional staff and therefore additional resources. however, these five people are still too few to handle the enormous and responsible workload, so the european parliament must continue to work to secure the resources in the annual budget to ensure the agency's capacity. in the light of the above considerations, i am voting on the budget of the european union for the coming year.
in writing. ‒ bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) is an organic chemical compound used as a plasticizer. even taking into account that france and denmark have banned the use of this compound in their chemical production without waiting for the relevant european union legislation, dehp remains a very widely used substance (about half in the plastics industry) in the eu as a whole, which unfortunately does not have a full substitute for the time being. for almost five years, the european commission has been planning to severely restrict or completely ban the use of dehp. one of the primary reasons is the potential harm that this substance can cause, for example to children who often put toys and other objects in their mouths. there is also potential for impairment of fertility, renal function and medical instrumentation. in other words, it would be logical to abandon the use of dehp, but there must be a rational correlation between the desire to protect our citizens and consumers - first of all, young children - and economic development in the sense that there is still no viable substitute for this type of phthalate, as mentioned above.
i can join my colleagues in saying that your style of action is very correct, but speaking of the substance of the matter, of tax rulings, i would like to state that an effective, fair taxation policy is the cornerstone of the economic stability of any country. it is clear that while there are countries in the world which, because of their wealth of natural resources, could almost completely eliminate the tax burden, this is not possible in the european union. the member states must now choose between a wide variety of taxes: income tax, social tax, corporation tax, excise duty, flat-rate tax, progressive tax, value added tax and many others. but it is clear that everyone has the right to work and to receive a wage that, after paying the appropriate taxes, is sufficient to cover all necessary expenses - food, housing, various household needs, and so forth. the same applies to companies, to give them the resources to pay taxes, wages, etc. but based on what i've said, i can say that the document is good enough, and i support it.
in writing. ‒ full tax avoidance, tax avoidance schemes and aggressive tax planning have been, are and will be one of the european union's greatest challenges. the member states of the european union have lost huge sums of money through these unfair tax transactions, and this has fundamentally undermined fair competition. i support the idea that large multinational corporations should be taxed in the member state where they carry out their economic activities and make profits, rather than legally shifting those profits to other member states which grant tax breaks to those companies. i fully support the right of nations to compete in tax matters, but that competition must be fair. i agree that member states need to coordinate their tax laws more so as not to create goods that companies use to reduce their tax liability. i reiterate my support for fair competition between the countries of the european union in the field of taxation and my view that tax legislation should be left to the national authorities. unfortunately, the report contains proposals which would infringe the sovereignty of the member states in this area, and i therefore abstained. each member state currently has the right to set its own tax policy and this right must be preserved. i consider that certain points in this report threaten the sovereignty of the member states in tax matters and could therefore have a negative impact on the practice adopted so far. latvia should be able to set taxes in a way that encourages entrepreneurship and attracts investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final report of the european parliament's special committee on taxation on a fairer corporate taxation in the member states of the european union. given the state tax policy of luxembourg's then prime minister jean-claude juncker, which was conceived as a haven for big business, the president of the european commission now has the opportunity to demonstrate his neutrality also vis-à-vis his own country. the obligation for large companies to report profits and taxes in each member state would limit distortions of competition that are incompatible with the european single market mechanism. unfortunately, sometimes such tax policy distortion initiatives have also come from latvian non-governmental organisations. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that this report does not legitimise the efforts to create a general common eu tax system, since welfare and accumulated capital, from which the tax policy guidelines are derived, vary widely between member states due to objective circumstances. moreover, it is not acceptable that smes have been placed in a worse position than large companies in the tax context at european level.
here is a very simple question: why in the member states of the european union and in recent days in particular in the capital of the kingdom of belgium has become such a terrorist hotbed in europe? the answer is simple. the european union has become a victim of its own success story. of course, that same freedom of speech, those other core values, must remain among our core values. we must not allow radical elements in society to exploit our values to propagandize their views among our people with impunity. the same applies to open borders, freedom of movement of financial resources within the community and also outside, because terrorists, other radicals, can freely use this opportunity to support their organizations and sponsor terrorist acts. the good cooperation of special services between member states and between the european parliament's external partners is also a much more active countermeasure against representatives of terrorist groups.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in paris and the brussels counter-terrorism operations are a further reminder of the urgent need for coordinated action by eu member states to prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens and to combat terrorism. i supported the ep resolution because it put forward a number of concrete and substantive proposals to deal with this situation. this is the case of the mandatory and systematic control of the external borders of the eu by member states and cooperation in the establishment of a european blacklist of jihadists and suspected jihadists, as well as a uniform approach to the criminal liability of state combatants. the ep should complete the eu directive on the passenger data register as soon as possible. equally important are deterring potential fighters from joining terrorist organisations and preventing the spread of violent extremism online and in prisons, as well as combating radicalisation through education and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ the recent tragic terrorist attacks in paris and elsewhere in the world have once again opened the eyes of the member states of the european union, as well as the responsible institutions, to the fact that not enough is being done to prevent eu citizens from going to war in syria and potentially becoming radicalised. i believe that this is another step towards how we, as europe, can tackle the root causes of terrorism, which is why i voted in favour of this report in the final vote. the resolution highlights a number of proposals that would help to combat the radicalisation of eu citizens, such as the creation of a common eu 'black list' of possible extremists, a common approach to the control and monitoring of citizens returning to europe after war. one of the key points in this resolution was the european parliament's commitment to complete by the end of the year the work on a directive which would finally allow the creation of a single european union air passenger data register, thus enabling the competent authorities of the member states to exchange relevant information and making the fight against terrorism more effective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data in the context of the protection of personal data.
the european union strategic framework for safety and health at work 2014-2020 is a much-needed document. it sets out, among other things, the goals that our community must achieve by the end of this decade. several things: social dialogue, compliance with legal obligations, improvement of working conditions, including in terms of psychological risks, ensuring equal competition, etc. this will all lead to a gradual reduction in unemployment. this is important because everyone has a guaranteed right to work and a guaranteed right to good working conditions. and the paradox is that at this moment in the world and in my country, latvia, there are also circumstances where the quality of work is low, but the result is high. we have to think about human well-being in the workplace. i'll back you up.
unfortunately, i think that overall, and i am right, the valletta summit's five-point action plan will not be able to be implemented, because the money allocated to it is much less than, for example, the deal with turkey, for the accommodation of refugees and for border protection. and why is that? this is because the political careers of some of the leaders of the european union depend on stopping this turkish-greek border crossing. however, i think that the greater emphasis in the five-point plan should have been on the speedy return of those returnees who do not receive refugee status. because the longer they remain illegal in the european union, the more they are vulnerable to the threat of extremist crime. the g20. in that atmosphere, which was terrorism because of its roots, i think that the citizens of the european union do not believe that jihadists are growing up in europe over generations and that there are only those who are growing up in europe and are eu citizens, and that no potential jihadist is one of those who enter this year during the illegal migration. i think they also don't believe that bringing together these families who have family ties, those who are coming into the eu this year, with those who have already lived here, will reduce the acceptance of jihadism in the european union.
mr president, this year marks the 23rd anniversary of the establishment of official diplomatic ties between the european union and the republic of georgia. our mutual relations have always been oriented towards dialogue and partnership. last year saw the signing of the new georgia association agreement, which also includes a deep and comprehensive free trade area. with the respective economic reforms under way (industrial, trade, social), the aa-dcfta should provide the impetus to georgia’s further development. progress on the visa liberalisation dialogue, however, could definitely be speeded up. georgia has advanced in the implementation of the necessary reforms no less or even much more than ukraine or moldova, yet the former already has a visa-free regime. the fight against corruption – especially through the establishment of a specialised anti-corruption unit within the office of the chief prosecutor in january this year – organised crime, money laundering and human trafficking, the advancement of human rights and media freedom policies, as well as the new progressive law on state employers – and more – already shows that georgia is more than ready to successfully finish the dialogue. as the high representative recently pointed out, the country is not only developing its own ties with the eu but also acts as the regional transmitter of european processes in the southern caucasus region. respect for modern democratic values and culture built on historically-involved traditions and customs, especially the important role of the georgian orthodox church and the patriarch his holiness ilia ii – this is the georgia of today. therefore, both as a parliamentary rapporteur on georgia and as someone sincerely interested in the further advancement of eu—georgia ties, i would like to point out that if there is a neighbour with whom the eu could definitely build much stronger relations, it is the republic of georgia.
my fellow citizens! the european union does not have strong armies to solve conflicts in different parts of the world, but the european union and european countries are the largest donors of humanitarian aid in the world. this money, if properly spent, produces a far more powerful long-term result than weapons and armies. and diverting funding to education for children who are in a prolonged crisis is our most effective weapon against poverty, against crime, against terrorism. statistically, there are about a billion children living in areas affected by various types of conflict. a quarter of them are under five years old. 10 million children are refugees, and another 19 million are displaced within their own countries. there can only be one conclusion. this is not normal, it needs to be corrected. i therefore welcomed the increase in the european union's financial assistance from 4.4 billion to 4.7 billion by 2020. to make these weapons more effective, we need european union policy, coherence and increased funding. so it's important that we stay close to each other and do everything our children need. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
answer to the blue card question. thank you, mrs. tom, for asking this question. but i regret to say that my country, latvia, cannot grow with a particularly successful integration policy. i will just mention one - in my view, paradoxical - fact. we talk about strengthening the state language in latvia, etc., and also about increasing the role of the latvian language, but when my country takes in refugees, including children, in january, only schools with russian language instruction in latvia have applied to take in these children. and latvian-language schools refused to do that. so i really don't have anything to say to that.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. while there is a saying that war is the engine of progress, to a much greater extent historically it would be more accurate to say that trade is the engine of progress always has been and always will be. trade gave a powerful impetus to the movement of ideas, knowledge, culture, people from one corner of the earth to another. in the modern era, trade has been one of the most powerful forces in the process of globalization. the doha round of negotiations within the world trade organisation was launched in 2001 with the aim of gradually liberalising international trade through the elimination of barriers, but after 2008 the negotiations effectively came to a standstill and several attempts to restart them were unsuccessful. a number of measures have been implemented in the last few years, which suggest that all is not lost. this motion for a resolution is very important to me because it reflects the european parliament's strong interest in working closely with its partners, the member states and the other institutions of the european union, with the ultimate aim of successfully completing the doha round and thus effectively implementing its mandate. the commission will continue to work with the member states to ensure that the union's policies are consistent with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. thank you.
the rapid economic growth, social reforms, adequate investment in education and health care, all of this and more, shows that ecuador has intensified its efforts in recent years to join the ranks of the most developed and progressive countries in the western hemisphere. ecuador's accession to this trade agreement is logical. because together with colombia, peru and bolivia - they are members of the andean community - ecuador will also be expanding its cooperation with the european union. in the future, a fourth member state, namely bolivia, could also join the agreement. accession is also very important, given the intensity with which latin america has begun to focus in recent years, if not more recently, on intensifying relations with asian countries, and first and foremost with china. and the european union should not stand by and thus support it.
it is historically and evolutionarily established that man is the highest biological species, and with it, we have the greatest responsibility as living beings to other living beings. the fact that we live alongside many animals and use many of them in our daily diet places a special responsibility on us. i would like to say that in 1974, the first legislative framework for animal welfare appeared in the european union, in fact, in the community at that time, and it was not until almost 40 years later, in 2012, that a comprehensive strategy for animal welfare and well-being was put into practice. the modernisation of economic policy, the development of international relations based on the observance of animal husbandry standards and beyond, the organisation of various international events and a series of other activities thus reflect the european union's commitment to guaranteeing the rights of our biological relatives. i'll back you up.
it's historically been the case that children, women, heroes are the first to suffer in almost any conflict. statistically, as several colleagues have already said, about one billion children live in areas affected by various types of conflict, a quarter of them are under the age of five, ten million are refugees, while an additional 19 million are displaced in their home countries. it's not normal. and i support it only because of one conclusion: this is not normal, and we need to correct our policy. i warmly welcomed the increase in the european union's financial assistance from the eur 4.4 billion in the 2007-2013 programme to the eur 4.7 billion for education in developing countries planned for 2014-2020. and really, colleagues, if children are the future of our planet, then education is undeniably an investment in our future, both figuratively and in fact.
cohesion policy is one of the main instruments of the european union for the effective reallocation of funds to less developed regions. but unfortunately, as in many other cases of use of the resources of the common funds, the allocation of cohesion policy funds is a very complex process. from the moment of project submission to the moment of the report, it can sometimes take a very long time. what am i trying to say? while few or no one here will doubt the need for cohesion policy itself, it should long ago have been reformed with the aim of simplifying and making much clearer all the principles of potential funded projects. on the other hand, the transparency of the implementation of the projects themselves should also be promoted. and it would be very logical to switch (at least partially) to the electronic format, because it applies not only to the cohesion project but also to the european parliament. because sometimes the amount of paper that we, colleagues, spend... just feel sorry for the tree. thank you.
imagine a grocery store! what are you doing? and this grocery store has only one manufacturer. what's that? i would call it the soviet union. it was. there was no competition in the stores. there was only one manufacturer, if any. i thought for a moment about the energy situation. we are in fact in a similar situation where we lack competition in the european union. so we have too high a price, we have no choice, we have a very high dependence on imports. to free the market, all that was needed was for the stores to open their doors, let the competitors in, and everything was in place. that's what happened when the soviet union collapsed. to open up the energy market, we now have this energy union, which will actually do the same. first, we need physical interconnections in both the electricity and gas markets between member states. we're going to have to break down all the barriers that come from regulators that restrict the market when it's physically possible. we got rid of the soviet union, we're going to get rid of this situation where we don't have a free market in energy.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office was established in 2010 with the aim of promoting an effective, comprehensive and transnational cooperation-oriented policy with relevant actions at european union level. close cooperation is taking place with eu agencies such as frontex, europol and eurojust. assistance to asylum seekers and the fight against smugglers and illegal immigration are the main aspects of the functioning of the epab. however, the epab's work cannot be limited to eu member states alone. close cooperation must also take place with our neighbours and other partners. switzerland is one of those countries, based on a number of factors historical, purely geographical, political, economic, etc. cooperation with it is wide-ranging and will only expand over time. it is therefore entirely logical that cooperation with switzerland could and would include not only simple bilateral cooperation but also a much closer and fully integrated participation of the alpine republic in the work of the epab.
in writing. ‒ relations between europe and dominica have been for centuries, for obvious historical reasons, and official relations between the european union (now the european economic community) and the dominican republic have been in place since 1979. over the decades, they have developed in a number of areas, from culture and tourism to economics and politics. both sides share a similar approach to the active and universal promotion of human rights and other fundamental values. given the level of development of bilateral relations and their longer-term prospects, there is no reason not to approve the draft decision of the eu council on the abolition of the short-stay visa regime. this will allow people-to-people contacts to be intensified and economic and other developments to be boosted on both sides of the atlantic, where the interests and cooperation of the parties involved intersect.
in writing. ‒ the development of political, economic, cultural and other relations between the european union and the pacific countries is an important part of our community's international diplomatic efforts. this is particularly true for ecology, tourism and fisheries. the republic of vanuatu is one of the most successful and efficient parliamentary republics and democracies in the region as a whole, with a value system very similar to that of our community. while the current level of mutual visits is not particularly high, firstly because of the distance, the abolition of the short-stay visa regime could certainly provide some impetus to our relations, promote the development of tourism, as well as, for example, cultural exchanges and long-term progress in the regional maritime transport system through closer links.
in writing. ‒ trinidad and tobago is one of the most developed and prosperous countries in the western hemisphere, with relations with the european union generally developing for the past decade. tourism, sport, energy, trade, investment, ecology - all these and many more are the cornerstones of the relationship. moreover, in terms of reciprocal visits, the absolute majority of the citizens of this lesser antilles country travelling within the schengen area are considered to be honest travellers the number of visa refusals last year was less than 0,3%. the caribbean region occupies an important place in the eu's diplomatic efforts, and trinidad and tobago is undeniably one of the most important regional players in this regard. the abolition of the short-stay visa regime would therefore be another positive step which could provide a strong impetus to the development of our relations.
in writing. ‒ at present, the main areas of cooperation between the european union and the independent state of samoa are private sector development, tourism and ensuring access to freshwater. palm oil, coffee and fishery products, on the other hand, represent the primary part of imports from samoa. climate change is another area of cooperation of great importance, especially given the relatively high exposure of this pacific ocean country to climate change, firstly, sea level rise. a highly dynamic economy, a developed parliamentary democracy, and respect for human rights in all their forms - this is the independent state of samoa today. in view of the potential future prospects, the abolition of the short-stay visa regime is an important, logical and productive step which will help to further develop our relations successfully.
in writing. ‒ although grenada is one of the smallest countries in the caribbean and the world, and its economy is heavily dependent on exports of fruit and spices, it has managed to diversify somewhat over the past few decades, with tourism and construction now accounting for a significant proportion of its gdp. a democratic country that is actively developing relations with its neighbours and other partners, firstly the uk (for historical reasons), and where human rights are at the heart of its national development strategy grenada is one of the countries with which it is definitely worth abandoning the short-stay visa regime. our economic, political, cultural and other ties will be lost. it will also potentially facilitate the development of more active contacts with other countries in the region, thanks to a kind of 'overflow' of progress.
in writing. ‒ the democratic republic of timor-leste has experienced a rapid development of statehood since its independence in 2002, which can be equally applied to the development of its democracy, as well as its economy, international trade, etc. the next step in this regard could soon be the accession of east timor to asean. although the number of visas currently issued to east timorese is relatively small, not exceeding one thousand last year, the abolition of the short-stay visa regime could reverse this upward trend to some extent. moreover, as the european union is actively seeking to increase its role in the world's regions and to promote more active relations with more countries, the lifting of the visa regime in the case of east timor can be considered as a significant step in this direction.
in writing. ‒ despite being a small country with a small population, over the last decades it has managed to develop its state governance structure, international relations, particularly with its neighbours with whom it shares a common currency, the defence of human rights, and an economy that continues to diversify from the primary banana and banana products sector to others. based on existing visa practices, travelers to our community from central asia are considered to be very trustworthy. relations between the european union and this caribbean country have been developing qualitatively and reforming positively for more than a year, and the abolition of the short-stay visa regime can therefore be considered a very positive step to continue this dynamic.
in writing. ‒ the economy of saint vincent and the grenadines is still dominated by the banana and related products sector, which employs more than half of the country's total population. on the other hand, with the change in eu policy on banana imports, economic diversification in saint vincent and the grenadines has intensified in recent years, which is a significant and positive trend in any country. the european union is not the caribbean country's primary external trade and overall economic partner, especially in comparison with its regional neighbours, but this is gradually changing. the abolition of the short-stay visa regime could therefore clearly provide a strong impetus in this direction. firstly, it concerns the development of tourism, which over twenty years ago overtook the banana sector as the main source of supplementing the state budget.
in writing. ‒ with the full lifting of the short-stay visa regime following the signing of the relevant agreement in may this year, the uae will become the first arab country to introduce such a partial visa-free regime for schengen member states. given the bilateral tourism and overall passenger traffic, the rapid development of business contacts and the dynamics of investment flows, as well as the fact that the european union is the main trading partner of the uae, such a step can be seen as quite logical and positive. on the other hand, however, it is worth noting one thing that is very important to me as a member of the european parliament from latvia. while my country's citizens will no longer need to obtain short-term visas to travel to the uae, latvian non-citizens will not have this option, as my country does not have, and probably does not even plan to conclude, a relevant agreement with the uae that would concretise this fundamental moment.
in writing. ‒ the european union is structurally made up of dozens of different institutions and entities, which have been undergoing a number of institutional reforms for decades to standardise their functioning and to improve their efficiency. cooperation between these bodies is also important for the survival of our community, for overcoming existing and potential problems and for resolving conflicts. the office for harmonization in the internal market is responsible for the registration of trade marks and designs at european union level. the board shall have legal, administrative and financial independence, although its activities shall be subject to the supervision of the court of justice of the european union. eurojust's mission is to improve the effectiveness of the investigative and prosecutorial authorities of the member states in dealing with serious cross-border crime and organised crime. in other words, the functions of the itsb and eurojust often overlap closely in the area of commercial crime, and it is therefore essential to promote cooperation between these bodies. it was therefore entirely logical to vote in favour of this mou.
in writing. ‒ the annual budget of the european union exceeded eur 162 billion in revenue this year alone. the vast majority of these funds came from the member states: from various taxes, tariffs and other sources. all eu programmes are financed and co-financed directly from these funds, and timely, stable and fully committed payments are therefore essential for the effective implementation of union policies in agriculture, regional policy, external affairs and other areas. in other words, the european union is dependent on the member states and the member states are dependent on the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the new member states, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the new member states. in order to give our member states and their citizens full access to community funds and other sources of co-financing for projects and programmes, member states must first meet their budgetary payment obligations. increasing the clarity of the principles of replenishment and spending of the eu budget and reforming assets where necessary is a guarantee for the effective implementation of community policies.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of the member's immunity is based on a complaint by the labour inspectorate of east matica, which shows that mr kirtsosa did not pay the full salary of an employee of his publishing house in greece in 2013. the payment of remuneration for work performed is one of the fundamental rights of any employee and therefore constituted a valid reason for the waiver of the member's immunity. however, the only instance which could resolve the substance and factual nature of the complaint, leading to a final conclusion and verdict, is the court. the point is that justice prevails, and our job is to promote it.
in writing. ‒ stelioss kologlou is a (former) greek journalist whose request for the waiver of the immunity of a member of parliament is based on the fact that in 2010 there was an unchecked publication of news when he wrote an article on the staff of the patras prison. the waiver of the member's immunity is likely to lead to legal proceedings, which will also determine what exactly happened and for what reasons, and will result in a verdict. i would like to add that the cornerstone of the journalist's work is not just to simply provide the public with some kind of information, but also to do so as fairly as possible without any exceptions. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution in large part because it was necessary to determine whether mr kologlou had discharged his professional duties fairly or not.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the effects of globalisation. in this case, a vote was held on the granting of financial aid of eur 2,623 million to 1200 former employees of the computer company from 69 companies. understandably, firstly, all this concerns the people who lost their jobs as a result of nokia's decision to move a number of professional functions abroad, in particular to asian countries, and in general during the not very favourable economic period that the company experienced. the egf is one of several eu mechanisms aimed at tackling unemployment, returning workers to the labour market and thus strengthening the economies of the community member states by increasing the competitiveness and skills of their populations.
in writing. ‒ as the european union and its institutional predecessors developed, the level of integration between member states became so high that a common trade mark office was needed, even if europeans themselves and people from other parts of the world understood which goods came from our community. to a large extent, it can also be qualified as a specific quality mark. the eu trade mark allows companies from our member states to register their trade marks throughout the union, not just at national level. as the eu's legislative stock grows each year, there is a need for gradual reform and functional simplification of its various aspects. this regulation reforms the previous regulations covering the eu trade mark in order to facilitate their acquisition and amendment, the settlement of various disputes, the cooperation of national and transnational authorities and legal compatibility, thus potentially leading to an increase in the efficiency of the economic system of the community as a whole and also in competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ as with the eu trade mark, where one of the tasks of the new regulation is to standardise the compatibility of transnational and national systems, this directive was primarily concerned with promoting the compatibility of the trade mark policies of the different member states. one interesting aspect of the new directive is the possibility of terminating the existence of a trade mark after 5 years of not being fully used. there are many cases in history where trademarks (including political parties) have been revived by other owners. this directive will standardise this system at eu level in order to facilitate the re-registration of trade marks throughout the union. another important aspect is the fight against counterfeiting of trade marks, which is particularly relevant for medicinal products. it is one thing to buy illicitly manufactured pants or a radio receiver - this may not be entirely desirable, of course, but illicit drugs or food can do serious harm to people's health. in other words, the adoption of the new directive was not only logical but also necessary consumer protection must always be one of the primary policy aspects of our member states and the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ fishing has always been an important part of the daily lives of europeans. the european commission, parliament and council have their own structural components whose action is geared to regulating the general area and reforming it where necessary. it is therefore important that the legal principles and rules applicable to fisheries are constantly updated in line with new commitments made by the european union. the north-east atlantic fisheries area is one of the largest in the world and one of the richest in terms of existing resources. it also plays an important role in our community's fishing industry. therefore, the amendment of regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 with a view to combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and to systematising more effectively the operation of vessels involved in the sector in cases of transhipment is necessary for the further development of the sector and its synchronisation with the international commitments of the european union. the key is that any such change has a positive impact on the well-being of the workforce involved, while contributing to the conservation of the species.
in writing. ‒ for more than two decades, the european union has been making efforts to gradually integrate the western balkan countries into our community. trade is undoubtedly one of the primary areas where such processes normally take place, and so there has long been a so-called interim agreement between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina, which allows both sides to export their wide range of goods in both directions without any tariffs or other restrictions. in this case, it is almost two and a half years since croatia joined the european union. croatia, bosnia and herzegovina and other central european countries are members of the central european free trade agreement. the other members have agreed to the eu-developed system under which any free trade agreements with third countries after the next enlargement of the union must be synchronised with this fact. the eu and bosnia and herzegovina have been unable to reach consensus on this adjustment for a long time due to the objections of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the most effective way to combat crime in a planned and qualitative manner, especially at international level, is through close cooperation between the actors involved or other interested partners. the exchange of experience, strategic analysis, reports, investigation and training methods used and other types of information is very important and necessary. this applies to administrative cases, criminal cases, the fight against terrorism, the fight against drug trafficking and distribution or counterfeiting of banknotes. in recent years, the uae territory has become increasingly important as one of the regional and even global centres for the coordination, financing or even implementation of crime. a large proportion of these crimes also affect the european union in one way or another. the uae has demonstrated that it can effectively cooperate with them on a number of issues, and it would be perfectly logical to give the council the right to allow europe to conclude an agreement with the uae on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism in parallel with the lifting of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ energy independence is a must for any country in the world. unfortunately, the european union has to import most of the crude oil (90%) and natural gas (66%) and coal (72%) it uses. in the light of the other issues discussed during this plenary session, it should be noted that the eu is also heavily dependent on imports of the same base and rare metals. 40% of final energy consumption is consumed by the buildings and construction sector, while 30% is consumed by transport, which is 94% dependent on petroleum products. nuclear power accounted for 27% of the energy produced in the previous year, fossil fuels for 40% and hydropower for 11%. interestingly, eu companies own around 40% of all the world's patents on renewable energy technologies, which contribute only a small amount to those same greenhouse gas emissions. in other words, while our countries are currently highly dependent on imported energy and non-renewable energy sources, and this dependence may increase in the coming decades, diversification of the relevant import sources and a much more intensive shift towards renewable energy sources are the policy directions that our member states and the union as a whole must pursue.
in writing. ‒ today, electricity has become a vital part of everyday life. there are many places in the world where they are not, but if they were to be removed here in the european union, life would largely come to a standstill precisely because the vast majority of all aspects of life depend on electricity: from light to the ability to charge mobile phones. therefore, given the degree of integration already existing in several other areas, achieving the 10% target for grid interconnection is a perfectly logical aspiration. although the 10% target was originally set to be reached as early as 2005 ... if one country faces electricity problems for any reason, another can help. in many places, this type of progress is already quite common based on a commission report this february, only spain, romania and cyprus will fall below the 10% threshold in 2020. at present, ireland and the united kingdom, portugal and spain, italy, poland, romania, cyprus and malta are on that list. however, one very important aspect should be noted, both in terms of achieving this interconnection target and in terms of reforming the electricity networks in general. the eastern coast of the baltic sea, where the three baltic states are located, is for historical and geographical reasons electrically quite closely connected to the territory of the russian federation in particular, here is a striking example of the kaliningrad region.
in writing. ‒ the foundation of any country's economy is usually made up of small or medium-sized enterprises, so one of the most effective methods of eradicating poverty, especially in south asian countries, has been the provision of micro-credit to the population for decades. this gives people a sufficiently effective tool to lift themselves out of poverty, while helping their relatives, neighbours and fellow citizens. the fight against poverty worldwide, especially in developing countries, has for many years been a primary aspect of the european union's foreign policy, especially in asia and africa. but the fact is that poverty is still present here in europe. the introduction of the european progress microfinance facility and its planned support is therefore undeniably one of the most effective instruments of the relevant eu policy within it. more than 13 000 micro-loans have already been granted, totalling almost eur 125 million. given the guarantee on loan restructuring provided by the epmi and the reluctance of many 'classic' banks to provide this type of loan, further support from the epmi and the extension of its operations to all 28 eu member states (currently only 22 due to national characteristics) are very important steps to be taken in parallel with all others geared towards ending poverty among europeans.
in writing. ‒ given europe's geographical location and its historical and gastronomic characteristics, the common fisheries policy is one of the most important policies of the european union at transnational level. one of the primary problems is that for many years there has been a dispute between the supranational institutions over their decision-making powers. this is not only detrimental to the actual quality of the implementation of the cfp, but also to the confidence of the workers and entrepreneurs in the sector in the european union, firstly because of the annual quotas and the ongoing crisis (e.g. the russian embargo on baltic fishery products, firstly canned food). the most important objectives of the recent reform of the cap are to simplify the technical requirements (the list, implementation and reporting rules), to introduce the principle of regionalisation (whereby groups of countries grouped together on the basis of geographical origin would submit jointly developed proposals to the commission) and to increase the effectiveness of multiannual plans. another key element is that the involvement of directly involved actors in the planning and other stages of the policy is to be significantly increased. while the new cfp reform seems logical enough and certainly long overdue, the main thing it should achieve is not just some rationalization of the rules for the operation of the system, but improving the welfare of europeans involved in fishing, taking their interests into account, and promoting the sustainability of marine resources without negative consequences for the population involved in the sector.
thank you, mr president. i'm not going to let you down. you guys! we have something to be happy about. the political objective has been achieved. virtually all the world's nations have committed to reducing carbon emissions to reduce the human impact on global warming. that's a wonderful thing to do. but let's see what happens next. there are only two possibilities that could happen. the first possibility is that this commitment is being fulfilled. the second possibility is that this commitment is not fulfilled. what happens if they do? for us, for europe, for our businesses, it would be a wonderful thing. we would maintain our competitiveness, i think i would predict that our competitiveness would increase, because companies in europe have understood for years what energy efficiency is, have worked on reducing carbon emissions, we have so-called green technologies, we have an advantage. if everyone slows down, we'll be ahead. but if the rest of the world doesn't follow europe and it's just a, let's say, political commitment, then europe will lose its competitiveness in the world and emissions will only continue to rise. so the important thing is to see that everyone is delivering on their commitments, not just europe alone. thank you.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority was established in early 2011 to regulate and supervise the banking system of the european union member states. its functioning, especially after the crisis of 2008-09 - the consequences of which led to its creation largely through the reform of the committee of european banking supervisors - is centred on safeguarding financial stability in our community, both within and outside the euro area. given that the mandate of the president of the european banking authority can be extended for a further five years after his initial appointment and that mr enria has performed his duties with sufficient quality and productivity since 2011, it was logical to express his confidence in him and to extend his mandate until 2021.
in writing. ‒ like the european banking authority, which was set up almost exactly five years ago, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority was established in early 2011 through the reform of the committee of european insurance and occupational pensions supervisors and the takeover of its mandate. and, like the eib, its mission is to promote the financial stability of the european union. the same applies, as the name of the institution suggests, to our community's insurance and pension sectors. since the number of natural disasters, incidents and other accidents in europe unfortunately increases almost every year, especially in the summer months, and since the stability of the pension sector is of vital importance in any country with its own pension system (there are still some that do not), the work of the eafrd must be effective, transparent and sequential. given that mr bernardini has performed his duties with sufficient success over the past five years and that, on the basis of the statutes of this eu body, he can be re-elected for another term, it was logical to do so.
in writing. ‒ the primary players in the economies of the modern capitalist world are often large corporations whose functioning is based directly on the securities system. on the other hand, in the light of the whole series of corporate scandals of the last decade and the increasing need for effective regulation of the market economy system itself, the functioning of the european securities and markets authority is undeniably of the utmost importance. the functioning and powers of esma are based on the pre-existing committee of european securities regulators, which was proposed by baron alexander lamfalussy. since mr majors has performed his duties as president of esma with sufficient quality over the last five years, it was only logical that his mandate be extended for another five-year term on the basis of the authority's rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol is an important step not only in facilitating the integration of this western balkan country with our community, but in principle a perfectly logical step that will promote closer cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, in the fight against terrorism, etc. it was therefore essential to vote on this draft council implementing decision, which would allow europe to sign the relevant agreement. this will include, among other things, the exchange of personal data and classified information - a necessary step in a world where organised crime and, in particular, the threat of terrorism have intensified. it should also be added, in the context of the fight against the threat of terrorism, that some of the weapons and other resources used in the member states of the european union during the terrorist act came directly from the territory of bosnia and herzegovina. this is in large part why the signing of this cooperation agreement is so important and necessary.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up 9 years ago to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation. the annual budget of the egf is eur 150 million. in this case, a vote was held on providing resources to 108 former workers from the irish company pwa international ltd, which specialises in major overhaul and other repair work on commercial jet engines. the total financial assistance shall be eur 442 293. this step is important not only because it will allow redundant workers to return to the labour market as quickly as possible, but also because it will contribute to the preservation of heavy and high-tech industries in the territory of the european union through the preservation and diversification of workers' skills and trades. the egf is one of several instruments available to the european union that not only helps to fight unemployment or to facilitate the earlier reintegration of workers into the labour market, but also provides a positive impetus to the preservation of a number of sectors directly on the territory of the eu member states. this is especially important today, when many companies are moving production elsewhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ there are two primary variants of species area expansion: the first is natural, while the second is anthropogenic, i.e. due to human action. in some cases, the expansion of the range of this species did not pose any particular problems, as it did not threaten other native species, but in a number of situations the result was quite the opposite. one of the most striking negative examples is the rabbit in australia, and the tremendous damage they've done to the local ecosystem over the last couple of centuries. the establishment of a list of invasive alien species and the implementation of the corresponding response at european union level is an indispensable step, as there are many such species, such as the rounded sea urchin, whose natural range is in the black, azov, marmara and caspian seas, rather than in the baltic sea. the biggest problem is that the rounded sea urchin eats the glands that filter and purify the water. by reducing the number of molluscs, it promotes algae blooms and oxygen deprivation in the affected waters. as a result, other fish species die in huge numbers, while others, such as cod and haddock, become increasingly dangerous for human consumption. unfortunately, the european commission has not been able to come up with a draft regulation of sufficient quality in this case. once its text has been revised and is in line with the implementing powers conferred on the commission, it will be adopted with a view to increasing the level of legal standardisation in the fight against invasive alien species at community level. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
the european union's legislation on genetically modified products is unfortunately currently rather ineffective. this concerns, first, the implementation of controls at community level. for example, as can be seen from facts which are now well known, in recent years the importation of genetically modified maize into the union territory has been allowed without the necessary checks being carried out to the full extent. you guys! it is understandable that there is already a huge list of products in the world that have been modified in one way or another - either through selection procedures or genetically. and it's understandable that many of them affect our citizens in one way or another. in any case, the most important consideration we have to take into account is the health of the europeans and the absence of any possible threat. i need help!
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for a european parliament resolution calling for the withdrawal of commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. the european commission has to come up with better proposals for licensing procedures. i think there's a lot of concern and uncertainty about genetically modified products. the effects on human health and the environment of these products are not yet fully understood and investigated.
the first plenary session in brussels in december this year already voted on the creation of the so-called taxe committee and the appointment of its members. the primary task of the committee will be to continue to work along the same lines as the previous scrutiny committee, which was set up under the strong influence of the 'luxleaks' scandal. this means promoting a more transparent, efficient and as fair as possible tax system at community level through monitoring tax processes. the role of the member states in tax matters is not in doubt, that is clear. however, given the already high level of economic integration, the number of legislative aspects relating to business and the growing need to combat tax evasion or unfair financial aid more effectively, the role of this report is quite high.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, there are some rules in the tax laws of the current eu member states that are often used. the member states of the european union are losing and have lost huge sums of money because of the complete avoidance of tax by companies and the aggressive tax policies pursued by certain member states. this has fundamentally distorted fair competition in the european union's single market. the report included recommendations for a fairer and more transparent corporate tax policy, including a recommendation that large multinational corporations should be taxed in the member state where they carry out their economic activities and make profits, rather than legally diverting those profits to other member states which grant tax concessions to those companies. i believe that there is a need for greater coordination and transparency between member states. the right of states to compete in tax matters must be preserved, but competition between companies must be fair. i abstained on the resolution because it unfortunately also contains proposals that would undermine the sovereignty of the member states in the field of taxation. the commission has also proposed that the latvian authorities should be able to impose a tax on the income of the enterprises in the area of the transport sector. the business and investment environment differs from one member state to another. i consider that certain points in this report threaten the sovereignty of the member states in tax matters.
i abstained, and i'll explain why. because it is clear that relations with the people's republic of china occupy a very important, if not the most important, place in the eu's foreign policy. and it's that, to one degree or another, these relationships span all the policies that we implement in our communities, from trade and investment to culture and human rights. and while we are competing or diverging in many sectors, there is a high need to work more closely with the prc. the report was well-constructed overall, but, ladies and gentlemen, i do not see the unity of voice that we so badly need. because when it comes to chinese domestic politics or human rights, china's standards are a long way from the human rights standards that we have in our community in the european union. since i did not see this united voice, i abstained in my vote.
the eu and its member states have been and continue to be among the most active humanitarian actors in the world for decades, and it is clear that, as we approach the world humanitarian summit in istanbul in may 2016, it is logical to gather information on the eu's existing role in this regard, to set further action goals and targets for our action. just the numbers. an estimated 250 million people worldwide are living in conditions of humanitarian crisis. 60 million forcibly displaced persons. and more than half of all refugees in the world are children. colleagues, think about it, more than half of the refugees are children. we cannot stand by in the eu. that is why i support this document wholeheartedly.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. metal mining has always played a huge role in european history. its systematic, centuries-long development and active innovation, together with a number of other sectors, have historically largely guaranteed the good dominance and development of our part of the world. but it is clear that we must do everything possible at the present time to achieve lower energy consumption in metal production and other relevant and dependent areas, and to maximise the stability and security of supply of imported resources, at least in the medium term. not to mention the efforts to reduce the world production of such steel in the case of base metal, taking into account, of course, the possible consequences for national economies and the workers involved. that is why this report by mr martan is extremely important and i support it.
in writing. ‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution supporting the sustainable development of the base metal industry in europe. the steel industry employs some 300 000 people in the european union as a whole. a similar number of jobs are in the processing of other metals such as aluminium and zinc. these industries are forced to compete with similar products produced in other countries where the cost of production is much lower. this is a problem for the european union high energy costs in the eu, which are more than twice as high as, say, in the united states. it is very difficult to compete in an energy-intensive industry such as the metal industry under these conditions. the european union is therefore working towards an energy union that will ensure security and continuity of supply, competition and lower energy prices.
it is clear that any state has the sovereign right to pursue the policies it wishes to pursue in accordance with its national interests and so on. but that's just the inside. since there is an external parallel, the authorities must also take account of the international commitments of their own country. and here is the situation with hungary, if one of the european union member states does not respect its commitments and refuses to resolve objectively the existing differences with other member states, then in parallel and this resolution is clear political synchronisation could only be achieved through sanctions, some of which have already happened, such as the suspension of funding of various eu programmes. although, on the other hand, the european commission has admittedly done little more than announce. but i voted for this resolution.
the rapporteur. i call for support for the european parliament resolution on the agreement to the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and vietnam to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this year marks the 40th anniversary of the end of the vietnam war, and we can also mark the 25th anniversary of the european union's relations with vietnam. relations between europe and vietnam have grown rapidly. it is therefore time to develop the regulatory framework for our relationship. this will now be done by a framework agreement between the european union and vietnam. it is important to remember that vietnam is part of the pacific partnership, a newly formed trading bloc, which accounts for 36% of global gdp and could have a very far-reaching impact on world trade. the european union also has a strategic interest in resolving the dispute between the countries of the south china sea basin in order to preserve peace and stability there and to ensure the stability of the major sea transport routes. this is very important for european trade. vietnam therefore has a strategic role as an important partner of the european union in south-east asia and asean. i am convinced that the eu-vietnam comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement and the free trade agreement must also help to build confidence and human rights in vietnam. the agreement will also promote cooperation in the areas of good governance, the fight against corruption, sustainable development, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and contribute to the fight against terrorism. i therefore ask you, colleagues, to support the acceptance of the protocol.
mr president, when i was a little boy, on occasion i was treated with a medicinal balsam called ‘little star’, which was imported from vietnam and could be bought at any local pharmacy. nowadays, vietnam itself is a rising star of the asian region. the positive results in many areas have been achieved thanks to the country’s openness to the world. vietnam is actively participating in the asia-pacific economic cooperation forum (apec), in the association of south-east asian nations (asean) and has recently signed a free trade agreement with the eurasian economic union. now we are moving towards the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation. officially established a quarter of a century ago with an initial focus on trade and development, modern eu-vietnam relations have now become much broader, incorporating energy, science, technology, culture and ecology. the partnership and cooperation agreement has been especially beneficial to our relations. vietnam has become the eu’s major partner in south—east asia. the principal objective of the vietnamese people, which the star on their flag symbolises, is to build upon the existing successes and continue on their path towards greater progress and development. the eu can undoubtedly assist vietnam on this path, on occasion with a bit of friendly but constructive criticism on human rights, ecology, or the social sphere, but most importantly with productive cooperation. i fully support the conclusion of this agreement and hope it opens a new chapter of much more productive cooperation with vietnam and its hardworking people.
the rapporteur. i would like to support once again the accession of this protocol and hope that its member states will also speed up the ratification process of the agreement to ensure its early entry into force so that the eu-vietnam relations enter a new regulatory phase.
in writing. ‒ at the end of october this year, the european parliament adopted a resolution on emission measurements in the car industry, calling for a thorough investigation into the roles and responsibilities of the european commission and the member states' authorities in the wake of the scandal that erupted a few months ago. today's vote was to set up a special committee of inquiry to investigate possible breaches of union law and the existence of administrative errors. one of the main problems is that there has been not only a possible breach of the law, but also a major environmental damage and - which is of fundamental importance - consumers have actually been lied to about the environmental impact of the cars they have bought. moreover, not only producers or sellers but also the responsible authorities at national and transnational level could have played a significant role. the scandal is by no means confined to the eu territory, and therefore careful, transparent and objective scrutiny is of international importance. i hope that the members of the committee set up will, within the time limits set, investigate this problem and present conclusions which will be actively used for a further and more general analysis of the causes and consequences of this scandal.
i would like to say that throughout the history of the european union and its institutional predecessors, it has been necessary to adapt the internal international treaties and instruments to take account of the numerical enlargement of our community. this case of croatia is by no means an exception. specifically, as regards the relations between croatia and vietnam, it should be noted that they have existed at official level for more than twenty years, while neither has a close embassy-level existence. croatia, for example, has an embassy in kuala lumpur, while vietnam has only one in budapest, but cooperation has been developing gradually over many years. agreements were signed on double taxation, trade, investment and visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic and official passports. with the accession of croatia to the european union two and a half years ago, the signing of this framework agreement is expected to give a strong impetus to relations between croatia and vietnam, and hence to support them.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to say that the main objective of the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation is to promote the further development of bilateral relations in a wide range of areas. encouraging economic and trade contacts, promoting investment and more active mutual tourism, mutual respect for each other's values and traditions, and human rights - these and many other aspects form the foundation of this framework agreement as well as our future relations. vietnam is one of the fastest growing countries in both the south east asian and pacific regions. therefore, promoting cooperation is based on taking each other's interests into account, it is perfectly logical and quite fruitful in the long run. thanks for the support!
the so-called european semester system has been in place for about five years. it provides for direct and regular coordination between the european union and its economic policies at national and transnational level, with a specific deadline for each of the parties involved and a review of its implementation. while the primary role at transnational level belongs to the commission and the council, it would be essential to increase the role of parliament in this process and in the functioning of european monetary union in general, firstly in terms of transparency and the implementation of checks. in this case, it also refers specifically to the need for the commission to consult parliament in due course in connection with the preparation of the white paper on the transition between the first and second stages of european monetary union, which have already been completed, and the third and final stage, which began in 1999. so, overall, i support this trend.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. promoting human rights and democracy worldwide is one of the cornerstones of the european union's existence. while several countries are developing contacts based first and foremost on interests and pragmatic principles, it is of the utmost importance for the european union's foreign policy to strengthen this vector. at the same time, colleagues, it is clear that we must not forget that different parts of the world have developed in their own specific contexts and each culture has its own specific characteristics, and while there is clearly such a thing as universal human rights, it must always be remembered that their understanding is unique everywhere and that we have to deal with it. and this is the basis of all rational diplomacy: to propose one's views, interests and values, while simultaneously considering the other values. but overall i regard this document as extremely important, i voted 'for' and i believe that it will give further impetus to the protection of human rights by the european union.
as we know, the dayton peace agreement signed 20 years ago brought much-needed peace to the western balkans and, above all, to bosnia and herzegovina. indigenous peoples once again had a foundation on which to build their future, develop their country and their society. unfortunately, however, the dayton peace agreement, which was largely based on consensus, did not fully resolve the still-existing problem of ethnic fragmentation in the society of bosnia and herzegovina. the territory of the state is clearly divided constitutionally so that each of the three primary peoples constituting the state has a high degree of autonomy and existence in the circles of power. while a good idea, on the one hand, it often creates problems for someone who is not bosnian, serb or croat. moreover, the same republic of serbia's bilateral relations with the national centre in sarajevo cannot be described as good enough. but overall, bosnia and herzegovina is still a kind of transitional state, and we need to support it. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the common position is a legally binding framework within which the member states of the european union conduct their trade in conventional arms with their partners. it should be noted that some of our member states are leaders in this field worldwide, with, for example, €36.7 billion of arms exports in 2013, including €10.7 billion within the community. therefore, given the existence of arms and related trade in general, common systematically enforceable rules are an absolute and vital necessity. and of course, any member state has every right to implement a trade policy that suits its national interests and preferences, but any trade in arms must follow the rules clearly and transparently, and any violation of these rules will cause very serious problems. i'll back you up.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the directive, which has been in force for some 17 years, clearly states that products fruits, vegetables, etc., which have been grown solely by purely biological processes, such as selection or crossing cannot be patented. the intellectual property principle is undeniably important and is applied in many other cases but not in this one. however, in its judgment of 25 march 2015, the board of appeal of the european patent office ruled in cases g2/12 and g2/13 concerning tomatoes and broccoli respectively that the grant of patents is possible and in no way contrary to the abovementioned european commission directive. therefore, patenting of plant characteristics obtained by means of organic production technology is at least partially possible. we therefore need to further refine this direction and vector politically. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for a number of reasons, african countries are those that since their independence a decade ago have had or still have great difficulty in establishing effectively functioning state structures in which the daily life of society is not threatened by internal conflict, human rights violations, poverty, hunger and other causes. some countries have already solved these problems, while others still have them. burundi is unfortunately one of those countries. although it regained its independence more than half a century ago, it has never experienced true peace in its history. regional instability, ethnic cleansing or even full-scale genocide, two civilians, one of the highest poverty rates in the world, massive corruption, extremely poor health care - all this has led to a crisis and president pierre nkurunziza's desire to stay in office for a third term. it is not all that meets our european criteria. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. virunga national park is the oldest and richest in species on the african continent. sadly, though it has been a unesco world heritage site since 1979, the park is under constant threat. in 2007, the local government granted concessions for the exploration of oil reserves in 85% of the park's territory. the neighbouring central african region has been the scene of bloody conflicts for many years, while the hunting of game against the species that inhabit the park has been a regular occurrence for decades. in addition, over the past decade, more than 140 park rangers have been killed in the line of duty. i am pleased that we in the european parliament support the preservation of this unique natural heritage, and i voted in favour with both hands.
