madam president, i would like to inform my colleagues that in our country, the czech republic, we have adopted and are now entering into force an amendment to the public procurement act, which transposes a large part of the public procurement directive adopted by this parliament in 2014. the expert debate we have had in the czech republic clearly shows that it is good if we are able to agree on the basic principles of the law governing public procurement at european level. entrepreneurs who want to compete not only in their national states but, say, across europe, can anticipate what the rules of public competition will be, and if those rules are similar, then i believe that we are creating a space for better business and better employment for entrepreneurs, whether they are medium-sized, small or large. so i welcome this directive and i think that in the future we should monitor how this directive is applied and possibly consider further extension of the area of public procurement law which should be regulated jointly.
in recent years we have built a strong protection structure for the euro area. it is being run through a full battery of tools designed to measure the economic and financial strength of member countries and keep their economic and financial results within desired parameters. this gives the impression that we are in better control of the situation. why, then, does a development that is supposed to be considered relatively small for the area, such as the election in greece, raise such a big concern? the euro project is a political one; it has therefore become too important to fail. it remains his greatest strength and greatest weakness. the project was built on the foundation of the enormous soft power enjoyed by the european union. but from the outset the euro area was not an optimal monetary area. it lacked the necessary federal structures to keep it strong and economic divergences within it increased over the years. the use of technical optimism to control the situation is an exercise in political fetishism that is undermining the union's own soft power. many of the euro area guidelines are based on outdated premises that need to be politically renewed rather than technically.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report that recommends giving consent to the conclusion of the agreement which forms part of the network of tuna fishing agreements in west africa and allows eu vessels to fish in that country’s waters. the report also calls for measures so that resources are exploited sustainably and training should be provided for observers monitoring catches. more transparency and information on the procedures relating to the protocol and its renewal are being requested.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the report that deals with the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe that forms part of the network of tuna fishing agreements in west africa. this new protocol will cover a four-year period from 23 may 2014 and provide fishing opportunities for 34 eu vessels, and will also include the necessary support of funding. the agreement will contribute to fostering the sustainable development of the são toméan fisheries sector and of related industries and activities.
in writing. — the fishing partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe will benefit the fishing industries of both the eu and são tomé and príncipe. the conclusion of the agreement will lead to the development of tools to prevent the over-exploitation of são toméan fishery resources. eu vessels will also be able to fish in são toméan waters in a responsible manner. this agreement aims to further the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and of related industries and activities in são tomé and príncipe. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe, which forms part of the network of tuna-fishing agreements in west africa and will provide fishing opportunities, as well as a financial contribution and development support, to the são toméan fisheries sector.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report that recommends giving consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the republic of the seychelles and the european union (for mayotte) that allows a limited number of seychelles-flagged vessels that have a tradition of fishing in mayotte’s waters to continue to fish in mayotte’s exclusive economic zone (eez) with due regard for the rules of the common fisheries policy. the agreement benefits both parties as it is beneficial for the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and it complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the indian ocean tuan commission (iotc) as regards preservation of resources.
in writing. — i support this report as it deals with the request of the seychelles for an access agreement for seychelles-flagged vessels to the waters of mayotte, which has just become an outermost region of the eu. this access agreement is the first of its kind in granting third-country-flagged vessels the right to fish in european waters. as a result, the vessel owners pay the fees directly to the eu in order to obtain a fishing authorisation on board. the fees are collected by france on behalf of the eu and redistributed in mayotte so as to respond effectively to mayotte’s sectoral needs. the agreement also contains a clause suspending the agreement in the event of a clear violation of human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-seychelles agreement because it will benefit mayotte and the seychelles and it complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the indian ocean tuna commission. the new agreement adds a new point, which specifies that the seychelles vessels taking advantage of such an agreement must unload their catch in the port of victoria, which will lead to the development of the seychelles fishing and processing industry. the agreement also stresses the importance of resource preservation and the development of local economies.
in writing. — the eu-seychelles fisheries agreement on access for fishing vessels to waters of mayotte is the first of its kind, and it is exceptional in that it grants third-country-flagged vessels the right to fish in european waters. it provides access for eight tuna purse-seine vessels flying the seychelles flag to an area between 24 miles and 100 miles for a six-year period that can be renewed. the agreement is of strategic importance for the seychelles and it supplements the existing agreement that we have for eu vessels in seychelles waters. therefore, i voted in favour of the cadec report.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report that recommends giving consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the protocol will not change the nature of the agreement itself.
in writing. — this report is a formality in order to regularise the text of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states with the republic of tunisia. the slight revisions made to the text are meant to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and the republic of romania to the european union. thus, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is due time for bulgaria and romania to benefit from the full range of agreements and associations that the eu is part of. tunisia is a key player in the mediterranean and maghreb regions, bulgaria and romania should therefore have access to the opportunities brought by this agreement.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the draft council decision giving consent for the inclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. — i supported the request for parliament to consult the european economic and social committee on ‘implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: taking stock and way forward towards sustainable mobility’.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report to allow eu member states (ms) to restrict or ban the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmo) crops on their territory, even though the crop in question may have been authorised at eu level. this is subjected to very strict conditions. this move recognises the sovereignty and autonomy of member states regarding gmo cultivation. this will not affect the risk assessment at an eu level which will remain within the remit of the european food safety authority (efsa). ms will thus now be in a position to better take into account national specificities.
in writing. — this report calls for extending rights for eu member states to ban unwanted genetically modified crops in their territory. the eu authorisation system for gmos aims at avoiding possible adverse effects on human and animal health and the environment while establishing an internal market for such products. this actual legislation reinforces the flexibility of member states with regard to gmo cultivation. it is based on the principle of subsidiarity and the need to respect diversity in the 28 eu member states. i voted in favour of this legislation as the possibility for member states to restrict and prohibit groups of gmos defined by crop or trait is secured, and as transparency has been reinforced in the text and as the precautionary principle was reintroduced.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this recommendation because it confirms that it will be up to the member states to decide on whether to restrict or ban gmos from their territory. it also recognises that the cultivation of gmos is an issue that is more thoroughly addressed at member state level; whilst preserving the internal market by ensuring that the importation of gmos remains regulated at union level. it is also important that modifications were proposed to ensure the transparency of the procedure to restrict or prohibit gmo cultivation.
in writing. — the eu authorisation system for gmos aims at avoiding possible adverse effects on human and animal health and the environment, while establishing an internal market for gm products. however, the existing rules are not sufficient anymore to guarantee flexibility and legal certainty to member states who want to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos after they have been authorised at eu level. therefore, i voted in favour of the new rules, which will introduce more legal certainty with regard to the cultivation of gm crops, more flexibility for member states to restrict or prohibit gm cultivation on their territory, and obligatory coexistence measures to protect gmo-free countries from cross-border contamination by gmos.
in writing. — the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) has adopted a number of measures that aim to ensure sustainable exploitation of red coral measures, mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fishing activities in the gfcm agreement areas, high level of protection from fishing activities with regard to sharks and rays, in particular those endangered or threatened, and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. such measures go beyond the protection already ensured to these species at eu level by the habitats directive and other union acts. i have thus voted in favour of this report which proposes amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 to include the measures contained in the gfcm recommendations.
in writing. — i gave my support to this report dealing with the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean that was set up by an international agreement back in 1949. the area covered by the agreement comprises the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting waters. the main tasks of the gfcm are to promote the development, conservation, and rational management of living aquatic resources, to formulate and recommend conservation measures and to promote cooperative projects in the area of training. at its annual sessions in 2011 and 2012, the gfcm adopted measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, for the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, for the protection of sharks and rays, and for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. i support the aim of this report of adding the measures contained in the gfcm recommendations to the original agreement.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because of the increased protection and conservation measures for seabirds, sea turtles, cetaceans, monk seals, sharks and rays that were incidentally caught in the gfcm agreement area. the measures go beyond the existing directives and union acts and now include specific monitoring obligations for both operators and member states.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the provisions for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area. the gfcm was set up under an international agreement in 1949 covering the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting waters. its main tasks are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources, to formulate and recommend conservation measures and to promote cooperative projects in the area of training.
in writing. – i warmly welcome the european council’s green light for the eur 315 billion investment plan, a plan that clearly demonstrates a willingness to get europe out of the crisis and bring along the full recovery of the european economy in the interest of future generations. i see this investment plan as a strong signal of our commitment to get on a new path for europe towards growth and jobs, and i hope it will be an effective and successful plan in attracting private investments and, at the same time, helping economic actors, in particular smes, to boost economic growth and truly create jobs. i see this investment plan as a unique opportunity to finance strategic projects: projects that will help realise our european vision of society and build a europe that is socially just and environmentally friendly. lastly, i see that this investment plan is ultimately about people: it is about ensuring that the millions of europeans who are still unemployed will find a job again; it is about raising millions of europeans out of poverty; it is about europeans who are well trained and equipped with the right skills; and it is about ensuring that our children will have a good future.
i was pleased to hear you say that we must be coherent with what we are saying because it is good that the european union is focusing its attention on the countries on its eastern border, but i often feel that it has done so at the expense of the countries on its southern border. i am pleased to see that more countries agree that there should be a possibility of a un-led peacekeeping operation to restore security in the country, with agreement between the factions. we had malta propose this and it is encouraging that now italy has said it is ready to take a leading role under the auspices of the united nations in support of peacekeeping in libya. we cannot turn a blind eye to what is happening. we cannot allow more innocent citizens to suffer or even be killed. we cannot afford to let terrorism, fanaticism and extremist ideologies ferment. it is true; it is the libyans themselves who can make the difference but the european union has a responsibility to focus seriously on what is happening in libya and in the countries south of our borders.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, many of the members used the term ‘failed state’, and i have to say that sometimes i think we are beyond that. that is why those who spoke of the need to use the limited time we have – and it might be days or hours, not weeks or months – to avoid total collapse are right. libya is a rich country in terms of resources, but it is still a country that can represent a perfect storm: a perfect mix of risks. let me name just a few of them: one of the highest concentrations of arms per square metre; oil and gas revenues, so potentially a lot of money ready to be used by different actors; an instrumental use of religion to spread acts that are close to terror; no control of land or sea borders, so a flow of asylum seekers, refugees and migrants that is not under the control of any authority on the ground. here we have a humanitarian catastrophe, an environmental disaster ready to happen, as some of you mentioned, and a risk of spill-over into the neighbouring countries. think of tunisia, of how many refugees tunisia is receiving constantly. we always concentrate – and being of italian nationality, i do it myself very often – on how many people we are receiving in europe, but let us just think about how many people the neighbouring countries are receiving in more difficult situations than those of our european union member states. so we are right to be extremely worried, and we should have no illusions about the facts. i am sorry many of your colleagues have left, but there should be no illusion that we can stay away from libya. we could stay away from libya, but libya is not going to stay away from us. the question is how to make sure that we lend a rational helping hand to try and avoid the country’s total collapse, because this is going to affect us in one way or another. let me express my condolences to, and solidarity with, the families, and also the authorities of greece and romania, for the loss of two members of the crew of a tank that was attacked a few days ago. on the same day i was on the phone to the foreign ministers of romania and greece to express my condolences, and this shows exactly that, one way or another, this is going to affect our security and the security of the region and the security of the world. so, even if we wanted to stay away – and i am not sure that would be the right and wise thing to do in any case – i do not think it would be possible. the question is: what do we do to support a positive process? many of you – almost all of you – mentioned what should be the outcome of a process: a libya that is not divided, an immediate ceasefire, a structured dialogue for some kind of national reconciliation, getting to a national unity government or some sort of transition structure that can guarantee some kind of government for the country. but, as we list these elements of a framework – or a horizon – we also have to be clear that even the talks which are taking place tomorrow in geneva, even the simple convening of a meeting, present huge difficulties that we could not have imagined. it is just by working on this every day, almost every hour, that you realise how difficult it is even to decide who to invite to a meeting, who ought to sit at which table, how to set the agenda, and how to define the next steps. even calling for a meeting is a major diplomatic challenge, so we are not under any illusion about the difficulties of the exercise. we have to bear that in mind as we reflect on the next steps, namely the role of the neighbours and the role of the european union. many of you asked about the role of algeria, for instance, or other countries in the neighbourhood. first of all, we have to be aware that there is not a single attitude among the neighbours: there are different attitudes among different neighbours, and the neighbours are very different from one another. that is why i believe – and again i would say that the role of the european union in this is to go hand in hand with the united nations, because we need a united nations framework – that in order to shape all these differences in the neighbourhood, which are crucial, into something that it makes sense to support, the exercise has to be undertaken along with the appropriate organisations. that is why the effort we are making is not an eu-libya one, but rather an eu-arab league and eu-arab league-african union one, with different formats of the neighbours – and i will not trouble you with all the different formats – constantly talking to everyone, and especially to those with different attitudes, be they egyptians, emirates, turkish, algerians or qataris or representatives of some of the african countries that are neighbours as well. i said at the beginning that, maybe for the first time now, we are seeing a slightly more constructive and positive attitude among the neighbours in their totality. this is maybe because we are all realising that we are running out of time and that this is the last chance for us too – for the regional community and for the international community – to show some sense of responsibility for what is happening there. the only way of keeping the region united is by working on this multilateral level and with this approach. when it comes to the role of the european union, i believe it has to be better defined. we will see the day after tomorrow whether these efforts for dialogue are going to produce something or not. we can put a lot on the table there. we have different scenarios on the table, and when i say it depends on the libyans to define the scenario, the kind of instruments the european union will be able to put in place also depends on the libyan reaction. if we have the start of a process of dialogue and reconciliation or a united government, and then a ceasefire starting to take place, then obviously the european union could work towards measures and instruments to monitor achievements on the ground. we have to think of the review of the mandate of libya, for sure. the mandate will expire in may, so we have time, and that is exactly why we are holding this discussion with the ministers on monday, with some options on the table as to what we can do in one case – positive developments we can monitor and support – or, in the event of a total lack of positive development, as to the kind of instruments with which we could press for a possible engagement, or as to implementing, or working on implementing fully, some of the un security council resolutions which, for the moment, are on paper but not fully implemented. we are living currently in a strange bubble, which is the fact that we have this 24-48 hours, with this last chance of dialogue, hopefully, taking place, to see if this starts a positive dynamic. we will have to be flexible. we use that word sometimes in different scenarios, and in foreign policy too, you have to be flexible. you have to have clearly in mind what your potential is – and we have a huge potential in all scenarios. we have to take stock of what will happen – or not – in geneva in the coming hours, and define how we can best either push, in one direction, or support the results that the libyans achieve once this happens. obviously we also have to get ready to act if the scenario is the worst possible one. we are working on that as well. that is not something i would discuss today, and i thank you for not having that discussion today, because today is the day of sending to the libyans, and to the region and to the rest of the international community, a clear message: this is the last chance for dialogue, and we should not and cannot waste it. whatever you can do afterwards, you get ready to do. you always have to get ready for the worst-case scenario, but today is the day of pushing for the worst-case scenario to be avoided, and the responsibility for that lies in the hands of the libyans, even as we speak. thank you for a good debate. i think a message can come strongly from here to the libyans that we are ready to support them because we care, because we know it is in their interest, and also in our interest and in the interest of the region’s stability. we have instruments to do that but, again, the decision has to be their own decision. i really hope that the message from here comes clear and strong to all parts of libya in the coming hours: that national dialogue and common engagement need to take place. there is no alternative to that. all other options take libya a step closer to total collapse, and we cannot afford that, and the libyans cannot afford it.
in writing. – i express my solidarity with the libyan people and i am deeply concerned about the suffering of the civilian population in libya. the ongoing fighting is perpetuating the serious violation of human rights and causing a dramatic escalation of violence. libya is in chaos, and this poses a threat to the stability of the entire region. the eu must clearly condemn all those who are responsible for violence and selective killings, kidnappings, torture and other grave human rights violations against civilians. it is urgent to find a negotiated political solution with the formation of a united and inclusive government, so the eu must continue to back the united nations support mission in libya (unsmil) in moving forward with the ghadames process with a view to bringing the parties in the conflict together in a national dialogue. the eu must assist libya in building national dialogue and, with the member states, must support libya in state building, institution building and the reform of the justice system. the eu must assist libya in resuming a democratic transition which promotes the rule of law and the protection of human rights.
in writing. – i believed that we outsiders who are friends of libya had better allow the libyan people to find their way to stability and peace by themselves. recent developments have persuaded me that it could be helpful if friends of libya suggest the political structures that they feel could best serve libya's future interests. i have heard sakharov prize winner mr el senussi relate the events of 2014 and his proposals for a new constitution are most likely to provide a stable settlement that is fair to all interested parties. this is for a federal arrangement, similar to the system in operation during the fifties and early sixties of the previous century. it would allow space for all interests to participate under equal conditions, bringing together traditional and modern, religious and secular elements. it would offer scope for reintegration into the society to those who presently feel completely alienated. it may sound futile to discuss now possibilities for future constitutional structures. but if one wishes to find a way out of the current impasse, one needs to first show that it can exist. the vision promoted by mr el senussi would be a most attractive option for a future libya.
in recent weeks we have seen more trafficking of people by criminal organisations in the mediterranean. we had disposal ships going to europe without crew. the images we have seen of vulnerable people continue to haunt us for a lifetime. we saw people loaded into large quantities. we are in danger of another tragedy in the mediterranean. these new trends cannot be ignored. we must act concretely and urgently; the commissioner said that we must have a holistic strategy. to address this illegal trafficking by people who exploit the most vulnerable. we need the political courage to examine what long-term actions can be taken and to go beyond the political mandate. we need to explore other legal alternatives on immigration. yes, we must also have the courage to say that this issue of immigration cannot be dealt with only by the mediterranean countries on the periphery of europe. every european government should feel a responsibility as do malta and italy. it is not acceptable that anyone should escape responsibility simply because they are not in the mediterranean. in the last year and a half this parliament has adopted two important resolutions calling for action in the mediterranean. the council must now take action. this is a european issue and it needs a european solution from all the countries of the european union.
human smuggling is an illicit and immoral business that attacks the dignity of its victims and is also a threat to member states. the most affected are in the mediterranean; the largest maritime border of the european union. the union has so far had a mediterranean strategy involving border management. however, the fact that the number of human smuggling incidents is increasing, is evidence that this measure alone is insufficient. this debate signifies a decision for the union to step up its action to better combat crime. to this end, we need to take action beyond what we have already tried and failed. we must work better and more on our relationship with third countries where smugglers find not only boats but also their victims. at the same time we need more coordination of action by member states and not just those most affected. finally, commissioner, i appreciate your work in this area and i assure you that you will also find the support of the member states.
mr president; madam prime minister, the latvian presidency will start in difficult times, when the instability of the countries in the east and south, as well as the activities of extremists and terrorists are worrying our citizens to a great extent. i appreciate that the latvian presidency has made a priority of the commitment to make europe a global reference point and to address the problem of immigration in the framework of solidarity and responsibility by all. however, they believe that the latvian presidency has given more importance to the problem of eastern europe, when it is also a problem of the mediterranean region. i ask you: how will the political, security and environmental challenges directly affecting countries such as malta, italy and greece be addressed? will we see serious action on the responsibility of each member state, or will this remain a beautiful but proud speech? with regard to frontex; will the presidency see if this is effective and if there is a need to include african countries? the momentum achieved by the italian presidency in the areas i have mentioned needs to continue to grow in order to address citizens' fears. we must understand that these . . of the ... .. of the (the rest of the speech is not heard as the president cut off the microphone).
mr president, madam vice-president, "missing massacre" - that's how the media described the killing of 2,000 boko haram victims in baga. this is another vicious boko haram attack. who can forget the girls who were abducted from school, and to this day no one knows what became of them? a massacre of 2,000 people; children, women and old men, who could not run fast enough to escape death. this is not just a threat to nigeria, but also to africa and europe. terrorist activity is not limited to africa. in pakistan, the taliban are also ravaging schoolchildren, while the charlie hebdo tragedy has brought terrorism to the heart of europe. and here's the question: why has europe ignored terrorist organisations such as boko haram for so long? how many more people have to die before we realize that terrorism has become a plague and a major threat to international security and peace? the recent attacks are a red flag for the future. finally, it must be europe that reacts and fights back firmly and effectively, to defend the european values of peace and democracy against extremists and terrorists.
mr president, madam ombudsman, i would first of all like to assure you that i have been re-elected as european ombudsman for this term. in her long tenure, emily o'reilly has shown determination, energy and efficiency in her role. convinced that in the next five years - together with the european parliament and the peti committee - progress will be made in the quality of administration for the good of the european citizen. last year was a transitional year, but the ombudsman's report is a very good one, innovative and also user friendly. but we certainly do not want to think that the european union has reached the acceptable level of accountability and transparency. in fact, the lack of transparency and access to information are the most frequent complaints. moreover, two thirds of european citizens think that their voice is not being heard. it is important that citizens do not lose confidence in our institutions, especially at a time when scepticism about the european project is growing. one way to avoid this, and to move forward, is to keep the citizen at the heart of our decisions and to integrate the citizen's interest into the work of the ombudsman and all the european institutions. we must ensure serious governance and we must ensure that the citizen sees and feels this seriousness. i am pleased to note that more than 23 000 citizens have been helped by the ombudsman. however, i note that unfortunately only a minority of complaints fall under the ombudsman's direct competence. therefore, to make this important office a more effective service to the citizen: • we must improve the channels of information to citizens to make them more informed about their rights• we must ensure that every citizen has access to the ombudsman's office, without discrimination against those who are not digitally enabled and therefore cannot communicate online• we must see an efficient follow-up of complaints so that citizens do not feel ignored• we must above all shorten the time of those cases under investigation, so that justice is done, or a solution is found without delay. finally, i would like to wish ms o'reilly well and thank her for her cooperation and commitment to this very onerous position.
i would like to start by thanking my colleague mr wałęsa for his excellent report. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you, ms o'reilly, for your work as ombudsman of the european union. i know that the work connected with your office is not in vain; it is not easy, but you have succeeded in bridging the gap between the citizens of the european union and the european institutions by creating and maintaining an office that has become more accessible, open, and better run. i would also like to thank you for keeping regular contact with our petitions committee and all meps; i was available whenever needed. we therefore need to strengthen transparency in the european institutions if we want european citizens to have more confidence in the european union and all its institutions. so we don't need anyone to convince us that your office needs to be strengthened and that it has all the resources needed to run it effectively. i make another point: we should also give every support to every ombudsman in our european union countries. in the case of malta the ombudsman is taking the initiative to set up the international ombudsman law institute in our country. this is a good initiative and one to which i give my full support. ms o'reilly, i thank you and look forward to further strengthening our cooperation over the coming years. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. first of all i think that such a question could also be put to the ombudsman, but i can answer you, yes. first, the fact that we allocate a lot of resources to the ombudsman does not mean that at the same time we should not put pressure on the judicial process before the courts of our countries to always go for the better. i have always been at the forefront of the argument that we should also ensure transparency, judicial reform and the right of everyone to be properly represented before national courts in the other countries of the european union.
thanks chair, vice president mogherini that in the year 2015 we still have people who want to hide their sexual orientation because otherwise they end up persecuted is not acceptable. moreover, when that persecution is carried out by the authorities or even the police who are supposed to protect these citizens. having a government in kyrgyzstan present a bill to criminalize the dissemination of information about different sexual orientations goes beyond that and is strongly condemnable. this is a bill that attacks the lgbti community and even journalists and puts them in a situation where they could face a year in prison on the charge of forming a positive attitude about so-called "non-traditional sexual relations". i won't go into the merits of what is traditional but there is another bad discourse going on against this community; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation of the disabled. reasoning that we should condemn. to deny the freedom to people to express themselves without fear of who they really are can never be acceptable.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report as it serves to congratulate the ombudsman for the work carried out, but it also gives one important reminder. it shows that the end user can always be treated better, and through measures such as better administration and social media the ombudsman can be accessed more easily and better serve european citizens.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report, taking note of the valuable work being done by this office in the interest of eu citizens and of ms o’reilly’s wish to make the ombudsman institution as accessible and user-friendly as possible.
in writing. — this report approves the annual report for 2013 presented by the european ombudsman. it also congratulates emily o’reilly on her first annual report as ombudsman and welcomes her approach in terms of keeping up positive working relations and cooperation with parliament. the 2013 ombudsman report also demonstrates the efforts made towards advocating respect for human rights and transparency and the promotion of european institutions. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — as vice-chair of the committee on petitions, i enjoy good working relations with emily o’reilly and her office. i fully support the ombudsman’s efforts to strengthen the structures and institutions’ accountability and transparency at european level and look forward to continuing to collaborate with the ombudsman in the coming years. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group, i recommended a vote in favour of the walesa report. during the negotiations in the committee on petitions, i proposed a number of amendments that were taken into account, amendments calling for a proper follow-up mechanism for citizens’ complaints, measures to improve non-compliance with the ombudsman’s recommendation, and actions to speed up the process of inquiry and improve information channels to our citizens. nevertheless, i did not support the amendments which fall outside the scope of the european ombudsman.
in writing. — the ever-worsening situation in libya clearly shows us that the eu needs to assist libya much more. conflict resolution in libya is first and foremost beneficial for the population at large as it will curb the ever-escalating violence and foster national unity. it is also beneficial for european states as large numbers of irregular immigrants start their journey into europe from libya. peace and prosperity in libya is best for all.
in writing. — i express my solidarity with the libyan people and i am deeply concerned over the suffering of the civilian population in libya. the ongoing fighting perpetuates the serious violation of human rights and causes a dramatic escalation of violence. libya is in chaos, and this poses a risk to the stability of the entire region. the eu must clearly condemn all those who are responsible for violence and selective killings, kidnappings, torture and other grave human rights violations against civilians. there is an urgent need to find a negotiated political solution with the formation of a united and inclusive government, so the eu must continue to support the unsm to move forward with the ghadames process, which can bring the parties in the conflict together in an exclusive national dialogue. the eu has to assist libya in building national dialogue, and the member states must support libya in state-building, institution-building and the reform of the justice system. the eu must assist libya in resuming a democratic transition which promotes the rule of law and the protection of human rights.
in writing. — following the last resolution voted in plenary on 17 september 2014, this new resolution addresses the worsening of the situation in the country, supports the un-led mediation efforts deployed by unsg special representative bernardino leon and calls on neighbouring countries to refrain from actions. it also calls for a political dialogue and a solution to seek de-escalation and peace and for further humanitarian, financial and political assistance. these were also points which i proposed in my intervention during the plenary debate, where i also welcomed the support being extended to malta’s proposal for a un-authorised peacekeeping mission in libya. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the efforts of the un special representative for libya, bernardino león, to initiate a political dialogue and secure an end to the conflict and instability. the resolution also calls on all sides involved in the violence to commit to an unconditional ceasefire, and on all political actors to participate in the un’s talks in geneva. the resolution references and recognises the regional destabilisation that has been caused by the conflict in libya. one of the major repercussions of the conflict is the spiralling migration and refugee flow from north africa, particularly from libya. it is crucial that a political solution be reached between the key actors in the conflict, and this resolution clarifies parliament’s position.
in writing. — i have co-signed and voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on libya, which addresses the worsening of the situation in that country, supports the un-led mediation efforts deployed by the unsg special representative bernardino léon and calls on neighbouring countries to refrain from action. the resolution calls for political dialogue and a peaceful solution to seek de-escalation and peace, and for further humanitarian, financial and political assistance.
in writing. — i express my full solidarity with the people of ukraine, and agree with the commitment to the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, inviolability of borders and european choice of ukraine. russia’s aggressive and expansionist policy through the use of cyber warfare, economic pressure and even energy blackmail remind us that europe plays an important part in this situation, as these actions are not only in breach of international law, but also impinge on the european security situation.
in writing. — i agree with the importance of the implementation of minsk agreements. it is important that sanctions are upheld or even broadened should russia not change its course of action. i welcome the result of free and fair early parliamentary elections and call for the swift implementation of necessary reforms. positive signals demonstrating a slight shift in moscow’s approach to the ukrainian situation are not enough.
in writing. — this resolution focuses on the need for the new ukrainian government to move forward with the reform agenda in the country, and points out that the european union will continue to support the new government’s efforts to build a new ukraine. to achieve this the following actions are highlighted: the most effective defence for ukrainian sovereignty and independence is to rapidly implement reforms in order to obtain a reliable and impartial judicial system, the rule of law, the eradication of corruption, decentralisation, media freedom and minority rights. i voted in favour of this resolution, as i support the efforts to work out a sustainable peace settlement.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because it covers the multiple and complex issues that the conflict in ukraine have raised. i support the resolution’s call for swifter and more substantial technical assistance by the commission’s ‘ukraine support group’ and the call for the international community to support the economic and political stabilisation of ukraine. the ukrainian people chose to move closer to europe and we must therefore show full solidarity with them. the resolution also highlights the need to enhance the eu’s energy security, thus reducing the eu’s vulnerability to external pressure from actors that seek to use energy supplies as a bargaining tool.
in writing. — the resolution on ukraine assesses the situation in the light of the formation of a new government in kiev, the continuous violations of the ceasefire in eastern ukraine, and the ongoing efforts for a peaceful resolution of the crisis. the resolution focuses on the need to move forward the reform agenda, calls on all parties, and in particular russia, to fully respect the minsk arrangements, and looks into the humanitarian aspect of the crisis. therefore, i voted in favour of a resolution that stresses the need for the new ukrainian government to move forward the reform agenda and calls on all concerned parties to ensure a peaceful resolution of the crisis in eastern ukraine.
in writing. — i have supported this resolution as, even though egypt has advanced quite notably in its democratic principles and it is a key regional partner to the eu, legislation such as the protest law of november 2013 serve to diminish its democratic credentials. egypt needs to better engage in dialogue with civil society to ensure maximum citizen participation and can help instil a fairer society for both males and females.
in writing. — egypt deserves support and assistance from the european union to address its economic, political and security challenges. although the adoption of the egyptian constitution in 2014 was an important step in the democratic process, egypt still needs to strengthen its democratic institutions, promote social justice and security and better defend human rights. egypt could be a good partner in establishing stability in the mediterranean and in the middle east. for these reasons i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. — i support the ep’s resolution that points out that the 2013 military takeover and the newly elected president abdel fattah el-sisi have not brought the change that the people have been fighting for in egypt. it also acknowledges that the country continues to play a key role in the regional context, as demonstrated by the mediation after the gaza summer war; however, the internal situation is characterised by abuses against political opponents, protesters, freedom of expression, and by a worrying use of military courts against civilians. finally, the resolution calls for an end to the human rights abuses, for respect for the new constitution, for the restoration of political pluralism and for parliamentary elections which have been postponed.
in writing. — it is my view that this resolution reaches a balance between the recognition of positive steps taken by the current egyptian government and the need for greater commitment to the safeguarding of human rights. the resolution also identifies the security challenges that egypt is currently facing, not only in the sinai peninsula, but also on its border with libya and the constant threat of terrorism. however, the shortcomings in the human rights sphere must also be addressed. there is a need to ensure freedoms of expression, association and assembly and political pluralism. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution in the hope that an appropriate balance between security enforcement and the protection of human rights can be found in egypt.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution as europe cannot stand idle to the plight of these two italian marines. international law should always serve to protect citizens and ensure that their human rights are safeguarded. the fact that, almost three years later, charges have not been brought forward by the indian authorities sheds serious doubt on the reason for their incarceration. i urge that diplomacy be used to its full extent for the peaceful resolution of this situation.
in writing. — the case of the two italian ‘marò’ has the potential to impact overall eu-india relations. the eu plays a central role in the respect of human rights at an international level and is also expected to take any necessary steps to protect the rights of its citizens. the absolute uncertainty about the future of the two italians after almost three years, and the incredible delay in the process is unacceptable. the eu needs to apply all necessary restrictive measures to facilitate a solution. i voted in favour.
in writing. — in the resolution the ep expresses great sadness at the tragic death of the two fishermen and extends its condolences. however, the resolution also takes into account the position of italy as a member state that is arguing that jurisdiction should fall to either the italian authorities or international arbitration. the resolution also expresses great concern at the detention without charge of the italian marines and stresses that the marines must be repatriated. it also states that rights and security of eu citizens in third countries should be safeguarded by the eu diplomatic representation. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution. i hope that a mutually acceptable solution is reached that respects the interests of all the people, as well as of both countries, involved.
in writing. — i gave my full support to, and also co-signed, the motion for a resolution on the case of the two italian ‘marò’, calling for fair treatment strictly within the rule of law and fully respecting the human and legal rights of those allegedly involved.
in writing. — the choice of ‘a new start’ as a title for the commission work programme 2015 shows the willingness for change the new commission has. the focus placed on reducing administrative burdens on citizens and companies will serve as a much-needed change to the current situation. measures to protect the union’s financial interests through combatting tax fraud and tax evasion can help ensure that taxpayers’ money is used where needed most. for these reasons i have supported this resolution.
in writing. — i welcome the readiness for change and simplicity of the commission proposals, aimed at reducing bureaucracy and simplifying the lives of economic players. it is noted that the work programme contains 23 new initiatives for 2015, while it proposes to withdraw or amend 80 existing ones, thereby communicating that the eu needs to focus on major priorities instead of introducing burdensome legislation. i fully support the proposal to revise the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making so as to improve the efficiency of the legislative process.
in writing. — although i have my personal reservations on the specific details of paragraphs 27 and 41 and on the potential outcomes of some of these measures at eu level, suggested in the motion for resolution tabled on behalf of s&d, i support the overall objective of the resolution, and find it highly important that the european parliament and its members express their priorities for the commission’s annual work programme.
in writing. — i support the commission work programme (cwp) and its approach of focusing on a few major priorities rather than a larger number of less essential ones. this is a positive signal that this commission is ready and willing to be effective in achieving the goals it has set for itself and in reacting to the concerns of the eu’s citizens. the commission’s commitment to reducing red tape at the various levels of citizens’ day-to-day life is essential. this will lead to the eu’s institutions being able to better focus on effectively implementing existing legislation, especially with regard to the common agricultural policy (cap), common fisheries policy (cfp) and the cohesion policy. furthermore, the commitment to fight tax fraud and tax evasion in this cwp will also lead to better use of the taxpayer’s money and safeguard the eu’s financial interests. i have therefore voted for the epp resolution on this matter.
in writing. — my vote is conditioned by the following reservation: the european commission work programme 2015 is condensed and to the point. as such, it can only be welcome. the programme also rightly acknowledges the need for urgent action to stimulate new investment. the question remains whether the proposal to set up a new strategic investment fund can make much difference. the fund is being built out of monies that have already been appropriated. they will be jacked up by private commitments, still to materialise, up to a total envelope of eur 315 billion. in reality no fresh money is involved. yet the need for a substantial injection of investment funds is most urgent. contrast this with the usd 788 billion fund voted by the obama administration in the us covering the years 2009 - 2011 under the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. of this amount, usd 224 billion went as grants to the states. clearly, the strategic fund proposed in the commission programme is too little, and comes too late. i hope that those of us who believe so will be proved wrong.
in writing. — the recent actions of the turkish government towards the independent media in its country are unacceptable. turkey’s ongoing application for eu membership as well as its membership of the council of europe requires it to follow eu values, including those of freedom of expression and freedom of the media. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — i gave my support to the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey following the debate on the recent arrests of journalists and editors from the turkish media. the resolution therefore takes a very critical stance regarding these latest attacks on freedom of the media and expression in turkey. freedom of the media is a key eu value, which any country willing to join should scrupulously respect.
in writing. — freedom of expression and freedom of the press are cornerstones of the european union and can be taken as a prerequisite for participation in eu structures. turkey has a very large number of jailed journalists, and pressure on the media has increased over the past few years. political intimidation of critical journalists has led to widespread self-censorship by media owners and journalists. these actions show that there is a need for more action, and hence i have voted in favour.
in writing. — i am concerned over the recent arrests of journalists in turkey and condemn all actions against media freedom. these arrests are incompatible with the freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy. freedom of expression is at the heart of european values, but in the field of human rights and freedom of expression in turkey, there are many barriers which needed to be overcome. the new legislative reforms in turkey should provide for necessary and adequate checks and balances guaranteeing democracy, rule of law, freedom of expression and human rights. i agree that the eu needs to stress the revision of all relevant law and the criminal code of turkey as well. i voted in favour.
in writing. — this resolution expresses concern over the backsliding in democratic reforms in turkey, in particular the government’s diminishing tolerance of public protests and critical media. it recalls that the freedom of speech and media pluralism are at the heart of european values and that an independent press is crucial to a democratic society, as it enables citizens to take an active part in the collective decision-making processes on an informed basis and therefore strengthens democracy. hence i voted in favour of this report.
we are deeply saddened by what happened just over 24 hours ago at the corinthia hotel in libya. we had another terrorist attack with dead people and innocent victims. we have a situation that is breaking out that we need to address. i, from malta, feel the gravity of what is happening in neighbouring countries. this terrorist attack in libya followed the attacks in france which go beyond horrific attacks on individuals. these were attacks on the values and freedoms on which europe is built. we are facing security challenges that are unprecedented. we need to ensure that we are one step ahead of criminals and terrorists. at the same time we must respect the european values we hold dear. these values can never be diminished in the face of the challenge of terror. but the answer is not, as some have suggested, to close our borders or become police states. what we need to do is to ensure that we have modern legislation that responds to new threats. at the same time we need to ensure that such incidents do not fuel racism and xenophobia. one of the concrete measures we need to work on, my colleagues said, is the passenger name record system in the european union. instead of having scattered systems in different countries we have one system and so there is better and faster intelligence sharing. with good protection systems, it can be a valuable tool to make our citizens safer. now it's time to conclude.
in writing. – one thing is common to those who push for all-out fiscal consolidation and those who insist that the total priority must be economic stimulus: both agree that investment in europe is lagging too much. the eu fund for strategic investments is being proposed by the juncker commission to compensate for this deficiency. it has been criticised as being too little too late. also, the really new investment monies being mobilised by the initiative are, in relative and absolute terms, minimal. most have been subtracted from monies voted by the eu for research, and that is highly regrettable. i sympathise with people who argue ‘better this than nothing’: however, the malaise of the eurozone results fundamentally from deep imbalances between its constituent parts. these have created a dynamic in which internal economic divergences continue to widen. perhaps the only way to counter the imbalances is through a central investment fund that is massive in scope and is targeted to rebalance wealth and employment creation within the eurozone. the juncker fund has no chance of achieving that target. nor does it have that ambition. for that reason, i fear it will make hardly any dent in the economic stagnation in europe.
in writing. – climate change is a global challenge, and greenhouse gas emissions are a global problem requiring a global coordinated response. what happens – or does not happen – in one country will have an impact on the rest. i am strongly in favour of having a roadmap which will eventually lead us to a new, strong international climate agreement in paris. we need to reach an ambitious, fair and legally binding agreement. what i see today is promising. after the economic crisis in the eu, which somehow put the environment on the back burner, it is once again high on the agenda. i honestly hope that europe can be an inspiration to others and retain its global leadership on environmental and climate issues. i will not say that the paris conference is the world’s last chance to avoid catastrophic climate change but i do believe that we have a good opportunity before of us, which we should not miss. so, as leaders, we should act now, not least for the sake of our children and future generations.
mr president, innovation and creativity bring economic growth and job opportunities. it is therefore right that the commission, together with parliament, should look at how to continuously stimulate innovation. a system that does not provide effective and efficient protection of intellectual property rights discourages innovation. in a digital world, negligent enforcement in the face of a commercial-scale breach does a lot of damage. given the social and economic importance of ipr protection, more effective and enhanced cooperation between stakeholders at all levels is needed but no duplication of roles or parallel groups is required. europe has always found its strength in unity and not in fragmentation. enhanced administrative cooperation, pooling of resources, ideas, best practices and information is the ideal way forward, especially when it represents a united effort bringing together experts, practitioners, national authorities, the commission, european agencies and the parliament. it is in bringing stakeholders together that can lead to better and harmonised procedures and standards and can also provide support for strategic, administrative and operational cooperation between member states. it is this synergy that the european union has sought before and fragmentation and duplication of responsibilities do not lead to better cooperation but carry the risk of out-of-sync synergy.
madam president, few things are more distressing than issues relating to the abduction of children by their parents, that is, when one parent takes the child abroad illegally. more than 90 countries - including all the member states of the european union - have signed the 1980 hague convention dealing with the civil aspects of child abduction, which aims to return these children safe and sound in the shortest possible time. and so i hope that tomorrow we will be able to formally recognise the accession of eight more countries to this convention, in order to ensure that these children are given appropriate and absolute protection as soon as possible. i therefore wish to express my personal support for these reports and hope that tomorrow we will all come together with an absolute majority to approve these reports. this should send a clear message to everyone that child protection is a priority for us members of the european parliament.
in writing. – the informal council has really two items on its agenda – the situation in the ukraine and greece. the latter could be as dangerous as the former, unless it is treated with farsightedness. at the initial stages of negotiations with greece, if any take place, brinkmanship could fast become the order of the day. if taken too far, this could lead to an unforgivable collapse. governments which have lent billions of their citizens’ monies cannot be expected to write off those amounts overnight. however the people of greece cannot be expected to give up for too long the prospects of a decent life. they only have one to live. the bailout plan for greece has not worked. it has imposed too many sufferings on the greek people. therefore it must be radically restructured. perhaps too the eurozone has to be restructured over the medium term even if this will initially appear to be a weakening of the eu’s immense soft power in europe and elsewhere. if negotiations with greece are to go beyond brinkmanship, the values that must be asserted need to go beyond technical considerations to tap the sources of a meaningful solidarity.
in writing. — the purpose of the proposal is to undertake a codification of regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of the council of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it; this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself, so i voted in favour.
in writing. — this resolution deals with the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland signed in 1972. the purpose of this proposal is to now take action and undertake a codification of regulation (eec) no 2843/72 on the safeguard measures provided for in this agreement. the new regulation preserves fully the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together. due to the clear procedural nature of this exercise i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report regarding the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland because the consultative working party of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions are codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. — the codification process represents the bringing together of existing texts thereby providing easier access to relevant eu legislation. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of the council regulation on measures that the community may take in relation to the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it, so this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. anti-dumping regulations protect european investors, thereby protecting employment in europe.
in writing. — the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 on the measures that may be taken by the community following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters. ‘dumping’ refers to exporting a product at a price lower than the price normally charged for it in one’s home market, while ‘subsidy’ refers to a financial contribution made by a government or public body which is beneficial to the recipient. due to the clear procedural nature of the codification exercise i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report regarding the measures concerning anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters because the consultative working party of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions are codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. — the codification process represents the bringing together of existing texts, thereby providing easier access to relevant eu legislation. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of the council regulation on measures that the community may take in relation to the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it, so this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. anti-dumping regulations protect european investors, thereby protecting employment in europe.
in writing. — the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 on measures that the community may take in relation to the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it; it fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. due to the clear procedural nature of this exercise i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report regarding the combined effect of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures because the consultative working party of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions are codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. — the common rules for imports were established by the council regulation of 22 december 1994, codified in 2009. they apply to imports of products originating in third countries, with the exception, on the one hand, of textiles subject to specific import arrangements, discussed under the heading of sectorial measures of the commercial policy, and, on the other, products originating from certain third countries, including russia, north korea and the peopleʼs republic of china. the proposal is a codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. a reference to ʽarticle 235 et seq. of council regulation (eec) no 2913/92ʼ, such as that currently appearing in article 8(4) of regulation (ec) no 260/2009, should be re-introduced to the text, so i voted in favour.
in writing. — the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 on the common rules for imports. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it; it fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. this regulation applies to imports of products originating in third countries. due to the clear procedural nature of this exercise i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report regarding the common rules for imports because the consultative working party of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions are codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. — council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports lays down the principle of freedom of export, stating that exports from the european union (eu) to non-eu countries are free from quantitative restrictions. the proposal is a codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. i voted in favour.
in writing. — the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 establishing common rules for exports. the proposed regulation establishes the basic principle according to which the exportation of products from the european union to third countries shall be free, that is to say, they shall not be subject to any quantitative restriction, with the exception of those restrictions which are applied in conformity with the provisions of this regulation. it should apply to all products, whether industrial or agricultural. due to the clear procedural nature of this exercise, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report regarding the common rules for exports because the consultative working party of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions are codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which encourages eu member states to accept the accession of gabon to the hague convention on child abduction. this would allow the convention to enter into force between gabon and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction governs cooperation among the contracting states to settle international child abduction cases, including a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children to their country of habitual residence, so as to allow the judicial authorities of that country to solve the case. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving gabon.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution since it encourages eu member states to accept the accession of andorra to the hague convention on child abduction. this would allow the convention to enter into force between andorra and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction governs cooperation among the contracting states to settle international child abduction cases, including a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children to their country of habitual residence, so as to allow the judicial authorities of that country to solve the case. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving andorra.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution that encourages eu member states to accept the accession of the seychelles to the hague child abduction convention. this would allow the convention to enter into force between the seychelles and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving seychelles.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution that encourages eu member states to accept the accession of russia to the hague convention on child abduction. this would allow the convention to enter into force between russia and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving the russian federation.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which encourages eu member states to accept the accession of albania to the hague convention on child abduction. this would allow the convention to enter into force between albania and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction governs cooperation among the contracting states to settle international child abduction cases, including a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children to their country of habitual residence, so as to allow the judicial authorities of that country to solve the case. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving albania.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution since it encourages eu member states to accept the accession of singapore to the hague child abduction convention. this would allow the convention to enter into force between singapore and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving singapore.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which encourages eu member states to accept the accession of morocco to the hague convention on child abduction. this would allow the convention to enter into force between morocco and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving morocco.
in writing. — we often hear of child abductions taking place in member states, especially when parents and family members originate from different countries. when this happens within member states, that child is already protected by legislation, but it is important to protect children also when abducted to non-eu countries. the accession of more countries to the hague convention is welcomed as it extends the network of protection for children. the hague convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in cases where a couple has separated and the parents are from different states, lack of cooperation between these states can create a situation which is not in the best interests of the child involved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution since it encourages eu member states to accept the accession of armenia to the hague convention on child abduction. this would allow the convention to enter into force between armenia and the eu and thus help to ensure the prompt return of abducted children. all eu member states have ratified the convention.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aids in establishing the relevant jurisdiction to award custody of the child in question. the eu now has exclusive external competence in facilitating cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction but requires each state to accept the accession of new signatories in their own territory. therefore, i support each member state’s acceptance of the extension to the convention as it would ensure the protection of the child’s best interests in cases involving armenia.
in writing. — the procedure whereby parliament takes note of the verification of credentials of those elected as members of parliament serves to provide european citizens with a procedure that takes note of their votes but also provides a system whereby members are required to provide written declarations that include holding of offices and financial interests. this procedure provides european citizens with a transparent procedure. the report also considers issues which are fundamental to a fair electoral process such as disenfranchisement and exercise of electoral rights and seeks to safeguard the right of all eu citizens to vote in elections for the members of the european parliament.
in writing. — i voted in favour this resolution which states that the parliament declares valid, the mandate of malta’s six meps (including myself) and all other elected meps, whose election has been notified by the competent national authorities and who have made the written declarations as regards their professional activities and any other remunerated functions or activities. this resolution also calls for member states to ensure that the registration formalities relating to the participation of nationals of other member states in the european elections are simplified.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because of the need for member states to notify parliament accurately of all the names of the elected candidates and the names of any substitutes, together with their ranking in accordance with the results of the vote. this is essential to guarantee parliament’s legitimacy as a democratic institution.
in writing. — improving road safety is a prime objective of the transport policy in the eu. the proposed directive ensures a high level of protection for all road users in the union by facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. the lack of consistent enforcement of sanctions for road traffic offences considerably jeopardises road safety. the enforcement of sanctions, where those offences are committed with a vehicle registered in a member state other than the member state where the offence took place, needs to be facilitated, the eu needs to ensure equal treatment of drivers as between resident and non-resident offenders, and to grant the member state of the offence access to vehicle registration data of the member state of registration.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which will continue to allow member states access to each other’s national vehicle registration data in order to track people who commit certain safety-related offences. the european court of justice annulled the previous directive because of an incorrect legal basis (police co-operation) and the legislators have agreed on a new text within the one-year deadline set by the court. the directive has already proved to be a very effective first step in countering impunity on eu roads. it will serve as a deterrent for foreign drivers who will now be aware that it is possible for them to be notified of any offence they commit whilst abroad.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because of the need to prevent the creation of a legal vacuum with regard to cross-border traffic offences. the previous directive was supported by road accident victims’ associations, traffic authorities, road traffic offence prosecutors, road safety associations and by citizens. this new directive will guarantee that all citizens are treated equally in matters involving traffic offences, no matter where their vehicle is registered. i support the rapporteur’s efforts to seek assurances that the new directive will not run counter to the high level of personal data protection.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this recommendation as it purports to provide opportunities for employment, opportunities for eu vessels as well as providing for the possibility of providing conditions regarding the quantity of by-catch.
in writing. — this resolution calls for the signing of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal. based on the stocks of fish available and the prospect of future cooperation for other types of fish, as well as the opportunity to develop the local fisheries industry in partnership with eu vessels, and provide the eu market with quality fish products, this new fpa and protocol is beneficial for both parties. furthermore, the satellite-based vessel monitoring system will help the local authorities to step up their fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries (iuu). in view of all this i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — i support the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of senegal because it will facilitate an escalation of the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu) in senegalese waters. this is important as a crackdown on iuu fishing will also benefit local fishermen.
in writing. — i wish to record that my vote is conditioned by the following reservation: it is important that fisheries agreements concluded by the eu with third countries from the developing world seek to safeguard the rights of traditional fishermen while allowing for modern development of the fisheries industry. it is equally important that the rights and interests of traditional fishermen also be safeguarded in member states, especially in small island communities, as in my country malta. traditional fishermen there rightly feel that they are being placed in an unsustainable position. fishing quotas have been assigned to member states on a one-size-fits-all basis, as in the allocation of tuna quotas in the mediterranean. also in the way by which the quota system and the discards arrangements have been designed, small-scale traditional fishermen were squeezed even harder, while incentives were implemented to encourage them to give up their work. the lifework of these fishermen, if it is maintained and encouraged, could not in any way undermine the operations of the single market in the fisheries sector. sustainable fisheries arrangements both within and outside the eu should fully respect the rights and interests of traditional fishermen. this is not always happening.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the motion for resolution condemning the practices of enhanced interrogation techniques carried out by the cia. losing respect for the dignity of the person is effectively losing the values the eu and the us have fought for over the years. our societies are based on democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights. if we respond to terrorism by acting against these values we are allowing terrorists to win. in responding to terrorism we must ensure that we remain vigilant about our own rights as well as promoters of the same rights for others. anti-terrorism measures are not the path towards a diminished responsibility towards democracy, rule of law and human rights, but measures to assist us in securing these values in our societies and to continue to transcend these values in other societies. i cannot accept a situation whereby the european parliament does not condemn the use of torture, but i note, however, that the language used in this resolution is not the most appropriate.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution, which deals with us senate revelations of the cia’s use of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment of detainees in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and the alleged or acknowledged complicity of some eu member states. the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners was also investigated by a european parliament temporary committee set up in 2006. the resolution calls for an end to impunity and for a full investigation into member states’ alleged participation in the cia operations.
in writing. — the ppe had tabled an alternative resolution that in my opinion struck a better balance between the protection of individual liberty and collective security. international cooperation in this field must be conducted with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and with appropriate democratic and judicial oversight. that alternative resolution also condemned the use of enhanced interrogation techniques and inhumane practices whilst promoting increased cooperation and information sharing between member states.
in writing. — radicalisation is that which strikes at the heart of european democracy by inciting hatred and violence against citizens, groups, authorities and establishments representing that european democracy which is built on diversity and based on values of respect for human dignity and personal fulfilment in society. radical propaganda fostering hatred and violence exists within the european union as well as outside the union. radical propaganda does not distinguish between traditional and modern media but is found in speech, in writing as well as on the internet, and often finds opportunity for action through disaffected persons. an eu action plan against radicalisation is a pressing need. such an action plan is to address different spheres in which radicalisation is known to occur including prisons.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly condemns the recent paris attacks and all other acts of terrorism as criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivations. this resolution also asks for a balanced approach to security, including an evaluation of existing measures and their revision if needed. it stresses that, alongside any new security measures, there must also be progress on the reform of the data protection package, which has been blocked by eu member states for several years. this resolution calls for both the strengthening of our anti-terrorism efforts but also for the preservation of our civic freedoms.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because it presents a multifaceted strategy to combating terrorism. the resolution includes measures to tackle the root causes of terrorism and violent extremism. it calls for the better use of existing security measures and also calls for the european external action service to adopt an eu external strategy for combating international terrorism. i welcome the multiple references to the need to tackle radicalisation in member states and around the world through the use of foreign development policies which combat poverty, marginalisation and corruption. in light of the reports that isil is gaining ground on malta’s doorstep it is vital that the eu cooperates with security forces in libya to re-establish the rule of law and deliver on the promises of the libyan revolution.
in writing. — the internet governance forum (igf) offers a positive and concrete context for the shaping of the internet’s future on the basis of a multi-stakeholders approach. the resolution stresses the eu’s responsibility to support and continue to participate in the igf and the need to improve internet access across the world, and rejects the idea of a state-controlled internet and mass surveillance of the internet. i have thus voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the igf, strengthen its resources and maintain the multi-stakeholder model for new internet governance.
in writing. — this resolution deals with the renewal of the internet governance forum (igf) mandate beyond 2015. the igf is a multi-stakeholder forum for policy dialogue on issues of internet governance. it was created in 2005 and has held an annual meeting since then. the european parliament has sent ad-hoc delegations to every annual meeting of the igf. the igf mandate was initially for five years. it was renewed for another 5 years in 2010. the igf mandate now expires in 2015. i support the work done by this forum to facilitate transparent discussions amongst stakeholders from all over the world, many of whom had not cooperated closely before. hence i voted in favour of extending its mandate.
in writing. — this resolution stresses the importance of the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance and expresses parliament’s commitment to this model. it also expresses the need to make the multi-stakeholder approach sustainable through increased inclusivity, transparency and accountability. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this motion for resolution as it continues to further strengthen consumer protection within the european union. consumers have increasingly become more conscious of the food products they wish to acquire. research has also indicated that it is important for them to know the origin of the meat used in processed food products as well as for the raw product. some european retailers and manufacturers have already responded to this consumer demand by labelling the origin of meat in processed foods and this may well influence consumer behaviour. food fraud is to be addressed by providing greater transparency throughout the food chain thereby providing consumers with information. the procedure implemented must however take account of the need to avoid excessive costs and administrative burdens on businesses.
in writing. — the main aim of the resolution is to urge the commission to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods derived from fresh meat of swine, sheep, goats and poultry mandatory, while taking into account its impact assessments and avoiding excessive administrative burdens and costs for consumers and enterprises. mandatory union rules on country-of-origin labelling of beef and beef products have been in place since 2002. they were introduced as a consequence of the bse (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) crisis. from the commission’s own research 90% of consumers want to know the origin of meat in processed foods. in the wake of the horsemeat scandal there is an even more pressing need for clear information to consumers and more transparency and accountability in the food supply chain. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — the resolution stresses the importance of clear information about the origin of meat from member states or third countries because this is an important issue for consumers. the labelling is crucial as it allows consumers to make well-informed choices about their purchases. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa), as one of the institutions of the cotonou agreement, continues to provide a framework for an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament (meps) and parliamentarians from african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries on implementation of this agreement. through the quality of its work the jpa has established itself as a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation. the jpa has continued to monitor political, economic and social developments goals and respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. i have thus voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — this resolution deals with accepting the annual report assessing the work of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states-european union (acp-eu) joint parliamentary assembly for the period of 2012-2013. at the insistence of the socialists & democrats group the report clearly promotes the respect of human rights and non-discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the acp countries. i believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly should be a forum where the political dialogue is open, frank and productive, hence i voted in favour of the resolution recommending approval of this report.
in writing. — i supported this report because it calls on the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) to continue its role of monitoring crises and promoting greater cooperation between the acp and eu states. the report also expresses concern over the adoption and discussion of legislation further criminalising homosexuality in some acp countries. it calls on the jpa to reinforce the principle of non-negotiable human rights clauses and sanctions for failure to respect such clauses.
madam president, today we are speaking, as my colleagues have said, in the shadow of another tragedy in the mediterranean: reports that hundreds of people lost their lives again on their way to europe during the night. the situation in libya continues to deteriorate and is set to deteriorate further. in this context, unhcr warned the mediterranean countries that a sharp increase in people attempting to cross to europe is expected as the weather improves. unhcr called for increased search and rescue resources before victims lose their lives while hoping for a better future. frontex joint operations are effective insofar as they are made effective by the member countries. more efforts are needed to get member countries to contribute. what is necessary for frontex to be able to deliver what is expected of it in view of the expected outcomes? we also need to examine whether european funds and assets are being used most effectively. we therefore need to see if we need assets that are currently being used elsewhere, for example for the anti-piracy operation, eunavfor, in somalia, when these assets could be of better use in the mediterranean to help frontex and save lives. it is not possible to be here to sit back and then go on for a few more months and deliver condolences and forget everything. we need to act. the easo shall be responsible for the implementation of the tasks of the european union. since its establishment, easo has done a lot of work and we want to thank them for their work. however, an essential part of the competence of this agency is the promotion of the relocation of beneficiaries of international protection. we are again saying here that we expect easo to take the lead on this issue and, in the most active way, promote this concept among member countries. you, the council representative, also said that there was a need for more solidarity. we also expect the council to promote this solidarity in practice among the member countries.
madam president, in the area of how people from outside europe are allowed to live in europe, there are three factors that must be developed together if we are to face coherently the challenges that are leading to a large movement of populations towards us. and we must also remain coherent with the values that constitute europe. first, there must be a serious vigilance at the union's borders. much remains to be done in this area. the countries bordering the union cannot cope with the problems on their own. the common effort so far is still not enough. secondly, we must have a comprehensive, up-to-date and well-coordinated asylum granting and handling policy. valuable steps have been taken in this respect but much remains to be done, especially in the way in which the burdens are distributed between the member countries, the burden sharing. and thirdly, a common policy on legal immigration into the union should be introduced that meets the demand for more workers in certain member countries and that reflects different economic needs in other member countries. such a policy could channel the demand for economic immigration from outside the union and help to calibrate border surveillance policy. it offers a rational and compassionate framework for the great human problems that any form of migration represents. unfortunately, the least developed so far has been this common policy on legal immigration, even if this is an area where the call for more europe makes the most sense. so far, only the president of this parliament, martin schulz, has given the most recognition to this priority. it is in a policy framework for legal migration that efforts to bring border surveillance into play and to regulate asylum can become more effective.
mr president, access to medicine is fundamental to realising the right to the highest standard of health. continuity of supply and guarantee of availability of the medicine are a priority. the measures we have taken so far are not sufficient. a recent study by the european association of hospital pharmacists shows that malta is the country most affected by a shortage of medicines, which sometimes lasts for weeks. malta was also among the countries that wasted the most time looking for the missing medicine. we should be at the forefront of making medicines more accessible, leading to a reduction in price, and reducing the bureaucracy to include medicines in the formulation. we should stop discriminating between patients when we approve drugs for one condition and not for the other. governments like mine can no longer make quotas on patients who receive medicine for free, because patients don't get sick with the quota. the european union, with the commitment of governments and those in the health sector, can find the solutions to ensure that every patient is given the respect he or she deserves. we also do not forget doctors and nurses, who need to be given the tools to address their diagnosis through the medicines they choose for the patient.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are talking about millions of online images of child pornography. more than seventy percent of them are children under ten years of age. this is a small glimpse of reality because we are talking about illegal activity which makes it impossible or very difficult to determine the exact number of children involved. i am speaking here as a representative of the people but above all i am speaking as a mother, because there are thousands of children like my son who are victims of criminal people. and yes, we have a duty to protect children and offer them a peaceful life where they can play with other children and not allow anyone to steal their innocence. the internet is an invaluable source of information but is also considered the ideal medium for those who want to anonymously distribute and download child pornography. does it mean shutting down and blocking or limiting the internet? that is certainly not the solution. the european union needs to focus on technological developments such as the darknet, the illegal online marketplace accessed by anonymous infrastructures such as the tor network. in november, the united states and the european union joined forces in the 'onymous' operation against these infrastructures. there is a need to expand such global works to target child pornography online, and here i also call on the european commission to adapt the 2011 directive to these new realities. children are often said to be our greatest resource, and at the same time their rights are ignored. the mark left on children by this abuse is permanent, because that photograph and that film continue to happen to them.
in writing. – child sexual abuse online is a crime that is ubiquitous and knows no borders. the fight to eradicate the online exploitation of children is far from complete. child pornography offenders are increasingly operating in international online groups that use high standard technology and security protocols to frustrate the efforts of law enforcement to investigate their crimes. in addition to the further actions that should be taken to investigate cases of child sexual abuse online and to identify and prosecute offenders, we need to focus on prevention and need effective campaigns to support parents and educators on how to identify the online risks. we need an effective mechanism for reporting suspected sexual behaviour which on the surface can appear innocent. this initiative requires a global approach. while many efforts to improve child online protection are already under way, their reach has been more national than global. we need further eu action with the commitment of online platforms, internet providers and other stakeholders outside of the eu as well to fight against online child exploitation and to build powerful reporting tools and educational resources.
in writing. – freedom of speech is a pillar of democracy, and the extent to which a citizen is free to express his or her opinion helps us identify to what extent our governments respect their citizens. societies which advocate better freedom of speech have proven to be more engaged, vibrant and exuberant about being active citizens. in 1927 justice louis brandeis put it perfectly when he said that the ‘freedom to think as you will and to speak as you think are means indispensable to the discovery and spread of political truth’. to censor our citizens from their democratic and fundamental right to speak their minds is nothing more than an injustice to democracy. but the case of raif badawi goes beyond this. the flogging of raif badawi is intolerable and any form of corporal punishment must be gravely condemned by the international community. today the parliament stands with mr badawi. we shall not remain passive in the face of your fight for freedom.
in writing. — the issue related to the misuse of tax rulings by member states ought to be considered and exposed. yet one must not confuse the misuse of tax rulings with the member statesʼ discretion in establishing the tax system which is best adapted to their economy. we must realise that each of our member statesʼ economies has its own different challenges, advantages, resources and potential. turning the outcry against the misuse of tax rulings towards a call for harmonised taxation is not a way of bringing social justice within our member states.
in writing. — i support the setting up of a ʽspecial committeeʼ to examine the lux leaks case. no one can agree with tax fraud and tax avoidance.
in writing. — i support this proposal to establish a special committee on tax rulings as it is important that we protect competition within the internal market. i believe that this directive will help member states curb financial crime through greater transparency. the aim is to seek to improve administrative cooperation between member states. i reiterate that national sovereignty over taxation issues must be preserved.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the human rights abuses and violations committed by is in iraq and syria against civilians and hostages because of their ethnic or political background, religion, belief or gender. the resolution also stresses that is not only poses a threat to the people of iraq and syria but also to the security of european countries, and calls on the international community to provide more humanitarian aid and assistance to the people affected by the crisis.
in writing. — today, we are facing the biggest humanitarian crisis of our era with the long-lasting conflict in syria. since the beginning of the conflict in syria, almost half of the syrians have been forced to leave their homes and flee for their lives in search of safety. and the situation is deteriorating every day. they are forced to live in extremely poor conditions. hundreds of thousands of iraqis share the same fate. for many, it is not the first time. i strongly support this parliamentary report addressing the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria with priority and urgency, and find it highly important to achieve the de-escalation of violence as a basis for a broader political process.
in writing. — this resolution expresses the parliament’s support for the global campaign against isil and its long-term strategy to subdue the threat posed by extremists. the resolution also draws attention to the need to expedite the processing of asylum applications of refugees fleeing the conflict zones. it is essential that member states support the countries most affected by the mass arrival of irregular migrants and asylum seekers on their shores. therefore, i have voted in favour of this resolution as it pledges more support for the efforts to defeat isil and alleviate the suffering of those affected by the extremist militants. member states should also do their utmost to prevent further unnecessary deaths in the mediterranean and share the responsibility of hosting the refugees fleeing the conflict.
president, vice-president šefčovič, i welcome this strategy as a positive step. and i say step because i believe this is the first step because the future of energy and the energy union is much stronger than a one-off exercise. we are talking about a subject which requires much greater cooperation between all the member states. the importance of solidarity in the field of energy is fundamental. if member states work together in the energy field then we will be stronger to ensure energy supply to european citizens. it is important that the european union explores all the potential of different sources, routes and even suppliers in the field of energy. today we have too few electricity and gas interconnectors and much more needs to be done to reduce the barriers that exist, to allow energy to move freely from one member state to another. work on the southern gas corridor should be intensified and relations with suppliers from the top of africa should be stabilised. liquid gas hubs with different suppliers should be established and the maximum potential of lng even as a back-up in crisis situations should be explored. and here i call on the commission to strengthen this process by making use of all possible funding instruments, in particular the european fund for strategic investment. we are not waiting.. . of
in writing. – i welcome the commission proposal for an energy union framework strategy, which is the right way forward towards the creation of an energy-independent europe. efficient solutions in reducing energy dependency, securing energy supply, whilst at the same time reducing energy prices and energy poverty for our citizens, are crucial for the future of europe. energy markets are increasingly interlinked across the union. europe can no longer afford to look at energy security and energy poverty as a purely national or local problem for individual member states. europe, urgently, needs to find interstate, interoperable solutions supported by strong policies to implement a fully functioning, interconnected and integrated internal energy market. it is always about timing and i think that now is the right moment. therefore the commission and member states should grasp the momentum and implement a strong energy union security strategy. we need a strong strategy to reinforce cross-border solidarity and cooperation not only among the different member states, but as well among the remote areas and islands, which are very often isolated from the european gas and electricity networks. a strategy that will improve the infrastructure investments and security of supply, prevent the energy supply shortages and focus on a new and better interconnected infrastructure between the south and west mediterranean.
president of ecb. - madam president, i am very pleased to participate in this plenary debate. to lay the ground for our discussion, i would like to discuss three topics: the ecb’s monetary policy, focusing on the rationale for our latest monetary policy measures; the ecb’s commitment to accountability and transparency; and the progress towards building a deeper economic and monetary union. i will thereby address most of the issues which the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) highlighted in its first draft resolution. first, the ecb’s monetary policy. for several quarters now, inflation in the euro area has been on a continuous downward trend. at the same time, in january 2015, market participants were expecting inflation to return to levels closer to our policy aim only over a horizon which stretched well beyond any meaningful definition of medium term. in an environment of weak economic recovery and subdued money and credit developments, risks were increasing that falling inflation expectations would feed back into weakening actual inflation. such a self-reinforcing process could have posed severe downside risks to our price stability objective. against this background, we judged that the degree of monetary accommodation that had been introduced in 2014 was insufficient. a more forceful monetary policy response became necessary. with key interest rates at their lower bound, the governing council of the ecb considered outright purchases of public securities to be the only remaining instrument which could be activated on a sufficient scale to broaden and strengthen the measures already in place. thus, we decided in january to launch an expanded asset purchase programme. under the programme, the euro system will continue its purchases of simple and transparent asset-backed securities and of covered bonds. in addition, we will start purchasing on the secondary market investment-grade securities issued by euro area governments, public agencies and european institutions. the purchases will start in march. the combined purchases of public and private securities will amount to eur 60 billion per month. the programme is intended to last until the end of september 2016. in any case, it will last until the governing council sees a sustained adjustment in the path of inflation which is consistent with its aim of achieving inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. as in the case of existing purchases of private sector securities, the purchases of public securities have a high transmission potential to the real economy. they will further support a broad-based easing of financial conditions in the euro area, including those relevant for the borrowing conditions of euro area firms and households. in fact, we have already seen some positive effects of our measures. financial conditions in money and bond markets throughout the euro area have eased further. accordingly, lending rates to households and firms have come down considerably. loan dynamics have continued to recover, with the growth in credit to the private sector turning positive in december for the first time since mid-2012. also, evidence from the recent january 2015 bank lending survey provides positive signals, showing a further improvement in credit standards for all loan categories in the fourth quarter of 2014. moreover, most recently, we have also seen a measurable improvement in indicators of business and consumer confidence. overall, our measures will support economic activity, underpin the firm anchoring of medium- to long-term inflation expectations, and contribute to a sustained return of inflation towards a level below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. let me now briefly comment on the ecb’s commitment to accountability and transparency. today’s session is also an opportunity to take a wider perspective on ecb policies. in that context, let me touch upon a topic that is of high relevance to you: the ecb’s accountability and transparency. accountability of the central bank is the essential counterpart to its independence. to this end, the ecb has an elaborate framework to discharge accountability to european citizens and your house, and today’s debate is a key element of this framework. taking up new tasks in the supervisory field required adding further elements to this framework, and i believe the first months of operation of the ssm have proved our commitment to accountability in this domain as well. but accountability would not be meaningful without an appropriate degree of transparency. from the start – due also to its unique institutional set-up – the ecb has striven to be transparent. for instance, we were the first major central bank to hold a regular press conference immediately after our policy meetings. the ecb also regularly publishes a variety of data on the execution of its monetary policy operations and the liquidity conditions of the eurosystem. but more recently, we have decided to go one step further and to publish regular accounts of governing council monetary policy discussions, starting with the meeting of 21-22 january 2015, the account of which was published last thursday. through these accounts, we are enriching the communication of the rationale behind our monetary policy decisions and seek to give a sense of the discussion that has taken place among governing council members and the main arguments that were exchanged. we believe that this will enable members of the public and markets to improve their understanding of our assessment of the economy and our policy responses in the light of evolving conditions: in other words, our so-called ‘reaction function’. in the current circumstances, it will also underpin our forward guidance on interest rates. it will thereby further enhance the effectiveness of our monetary policy. finally, one comment on the future of european monetary union governance. the past few years have been challenging for the conduct of our monetary policy in view of the environment of financial fragmentation, which brings me to the topic of the foundation of our economic and monetary union. at the beginning of the european monetary union stood a clear commitment by member states to converge economically and institutionally. progress has been significant when it comes to common institutions, at least as far as monetary policy is concerned. we now have not only one currency and one central bank, but also one supervisor, one resolution authority, one crisis-management mechanism and, hopefully, one capital markets union. these institutions are built on the principle of shared sovereignty and of strong enforcement of common rules. together, these institutions clearly set the euro area apart from the arrangements that were in place prior to the start of the european monetary union. but we have not yet reached the stage of a genuine european monetary union. economic convergence has not been as sustainable as was hoped for at the outset. this still puts at risk the long-term success of monetary union when faced with an important shock. in my view, there are two complementary responses to address this situation. first, the economies of the euro area member states need to become more resilient. this requires sound public finances, but in particular at the current juncture, decisive reforms of their economic structures. fully applying the strengthened economic governance framework will support this objective. second, in the medium to longer term, we need to move from a system of rules and guidelines for national economic policy-making to a system of further sovereignty-sharing within common institutions so as to strengthen our economic policy governance. a common rule is only as strong as the common institution that can enforce it. the discussions on the new four presidents’ report will certainly provide a good opportunity to think further on these matters, and i am looking forward to your views in the upcoming berès report on the economic governance framework.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr zalba bidegain, and the committee on economic and monetary and affairs (econ) and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) for their valuable work on this report. the ex-post assessment of the ecb’s activities by parliament is an important part of the democratic accountability of the ecb. this is a necessary complement to the ecb’s independence. the commission shares parliament’s view that the ecb’s independence in the conduct of its monetary policy, as enshrined in the treaties, is crucial to the objective of safeguarding price stability. president draghi has explained how the ecb has addressed some of the concerns expressed by parliament during 2013-2015. this has been done in particular through interest rate cuts, the introduction of an expanded assets purchase programme – also called quantitative easing – and the conduct of the series of targeted long-term refinancing operations, or ltros. with these recent policy measures the ecb has demonstrated a clear commitment to address the risk of too prolonged a period of very low inflation, measures aimed at improving bank lending to the euro area non-financial private sector and fulfilling the ecb price stability mandate. as the measures work through the real economy, they will gradually improve financing conditions, reduce financial fermentation, support growth and jobs and bring inflation closer to the ecb target of below, but close to, 2% in the medium term. the commission shares parliament’s views that we need to use the opportunities that monetary policy and low energy prices are creating to move forward with adequate fiscal and structural reforms and policies. we must act both on the demand and supply side of our economies. on fiscal adjustments, according to the latest commission forecast, the fiscal stance in the eu is now expected to remain neutral in the coming years, which means that fiscal policy will not wait on growth going forward. but member states still need to secure long-term control over deficit and debt levels. the pace of fiscal adjustment going forward should be differentiated according to the fiscal challenge faced by different member states. those with sustainability challenges should continue adjustment and member states with fiscal space should use it to support growth. we agree with parliament’s view that there is leeway to achieve a more growth-friendly composition of the budgets. the tax burden on labour remains high in many countries. public investment was the main item targeted for cuts, in spite of its growth-enhancing potential. so there is scope to correct those policies. the commission has made stimulating investment one of its policy priorities. the investment plan for europe will help to reverse the recent downward trends in investment. it will support strategic project and risk finance, especially for smes. this will provide an additional boost to job creation and the recovery of the euro area economy. at member state level, ambitious implementation of structural reforms and product services and labour markets can contribute to increasing productivity, regaining competitiveness and improving the business environment, thereby also fostering investment. this should help to rebalance our growth model. it should lessen the negative impact of the necessary financial deleveraging and should prevent the accumulation of harmful macroeconomic imbalances. let me conclude by underlining that i see much common ground between your views and those of the commission. it is reassuring to know that we can count on your support in building the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to a constructive and fruitful debate here tonight.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, allow me to begin this speech by congratulating the rapporteur on the inclusion of certain issues pertinent to the fields of employment and social affairs. today more than ever, in the context of what the european union is going through, the issues of economic growth and employment must go hand in hand and that is precisely what this report is trying to do. colleagues, despite all the good efforts being made by the european central bank to stimulate economic growth in the european union; this continues to present major challenges that we must all continue to persevere to overcome. this annual report clearly shows that the european central bank is aware of the needs of the banking sector, but this is not enough and much more needs to be done. one action that can contribute to addressing these challenges is the capital markets union currently under discussion. in order to further support entrepreneurial creativity and innovation, europe needs to move beyond traditional banking finance such as private equity financing. most business in europe is done by small and medium-sized businesses and investment in smes serves to grow the economy and reduce unemployment. the numbers speak for themselves, with more than 20 million smes and a turnover of 25 million, that if every sme were given the opportunity, with european aid, to employ at least one employee with it, the benefits would be extraordinary. in conclusion, mr president, europe also needs start-ups. i recently read a white paper published by the yepp, the youth branch of our party, which shows how europe is lacking in this respect. recent history has shown that we are still back in this sector and so we must do our utmost to incentivise and facilitate these processes.
faced with the facts, it is difficult not to conclude that the european central bank is becoming the most effective institution in the euro system. it is certainly the body best equipped to take initiatives designed to deal with economic stagnation in europe. they are really taking a whole european perspective and are not caught in any national lines. the decision on them was therefore more severe; it's harder to do; it's harder to measure. under the bank's current president, who left earlier today, but also under his predecessor, the bank took decisions that provided steering for the euro system. some were and still are controversial. but they had to be taken. however, it has become clear that a european central bank has amassed within itself substantial political power, even if it remains within the confines of a technocratic discourse. this power is understood to go beyond the mandate conferred on it by the existing treaties. it is a power that will continue to expand as a result of the responsibilities passed on to the bank under the provisions of the banking union. at the same time, the bank's leaders are not facing any other power that could balance theirs, as in the case of the us treasury department in the dollar monetary system. the issue is not the quality of the decisions taken by the european central bank. it is about whether we have allowed a power vacuum to enter into the way euro decisions are made; whether this vacancy is being filled by the european central bank; whether it is a good idea; and whether we should seek to better balance the political power that the european central bank has acquired, and do so in the interests of democratic accounting.
mr president, the european convention of some twelve years ago was to draw up a constitution for europe. it has been rejected by the very european countries that have been at the forefront of efforts to bring europe closer together. in the meantime, monetary union had been established in the absence of economic union. it has borne with it great economic divergences between its member states. in recent years the euro area has suffered a recession that has exposed the weaknesses in its structures. arrangements have been put in place to support it and keep it competitive in the context of globalisation. within monetary union we lack a central fiscal mechanism to balance divergences between the centre and the periphery by transferring resources from the centre to the periphery. interventions by the european central bank that are likely to go beyond its legal framework have saved the monetary union from paralysis. ironically the bank's unelected leaders have called for further political developments that make monetary union more fit for purpose. the fact remains that the european peoples do not want a federal solution. the european will of the nations. some of us here see this as just a theory. they prefer improved economic governance that already supports existing governance structures. the challenge is how to respect the will of the people, while meeting the needs of effective monetary union between democratic nations. the challenge can only be met by developing confederal structures in the euro area.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, the ppe group requests that the debate that we will have later this week on the rise of anti-semitism, islamophobia and violent extremism be wound up by a motion for a resolution to be adopted later on, in the april part-session.
mr president, the security situation in libya is of concern. we are here again in the shadow of more people and oil workers of different nationalities, including eu citizens, being abducted by terrorist groups such as is in libya. terror groups remain in effective control of cities on libya’s mediterranean border and, as the situation evolves, thousands of people are at risk of being displaced and will flee the terror and violence in any way they can. migratory flows in the mediterranean will persist. as the un-backed talks continue, we need to hear from the commission on its strategy, how it sees the situation on europe’s doorstep evolving, and how it can play a crucial role. our citizens are concerned and demand an adequate response from the eu. we all remember how in the immediate aftermath of the overthrow of gaddafi, the eu – and malta and italy in particular – witnessed an influx of thousands. i would appeal to all of you to put partisan considerations aside. let us work towards helping to find concrete solutions for the crisis in libya and let us not wait until our seas have again become the deathbed of so many hopes and dreams. let us have this debate.
madam president, i too would like to begin this short speech by first thanking the rapporteur for his work. i think this is a very good report that we have before us. as we know, madam president, sustainable and effective competition remains the most important catalyst in promoting employment, growth and innovation in the european union's internal market. in 2013, in a report issued by the european commission, it had spoken about the need to give more powers and space to small businesses and this clearly shows how disadvantaged this is and, unfortunately, i would say still disadvantaged. small traders have already been hit very hard by european economic conditions; however, a fairer competitive environment could help them to recover some of these losses. it is true that the public procurement rules and subsequent legislation recently adopted by the european union can be of great help and encourage fair competition. however, this objective cannot be achieved without keeping small traders informed of these changes and without the commission ensuring that these opportunities are more accessible to small traders. and so, in this respect, i think that the commission needs to prepare detailed guidelines for traders and public authorities with regard to the new european union legislation, preserve market access for small traders in line with the small business act for europe and give more small contracts instead of exclusive contracts which are deterrent for small traders and which only benefit large companies that are very close to the decision-making centres.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all thank you for the debates. i think it has shown the depth and the commitment of parliament when it comes to our competition policy and the rules in the treaty. and we do have rules in the treaty. i very much appreciate the point made by mr werner langen that according to the treaty there is no co—legislation with this parliament. i am firm though in my commitment that as long as we have that treaty we will work by its rules but i will also work as much as possible with parliament taking things forward both in cases that were closed in the debate about competition policy and, of course, in cases where we may move forward on some of the proposals that are being debated right now. second, as was said by mr morten petersen, this is a crucial competence for the european union. yet again it also highlights the fact that we need to cooperate very closely with national authorities because in that interrelationship we can solve things that can otherwise not be solved. for instance, regarding foods, where national authorities play a crucial role but may not have any reasonable tools when it comes to large corporations. and that, of course, is one of the things that has been mentioned in the debate over and over again tonight: whether or not competition policy is strong enough to enable small and medium-sized companies actually to make their case, to use their talent, to use their competences to be in the market. i think that is a very good point because it sort of highlights the goals of competition policy, not just to enforce because of enforcement but to enforce in order to enable people to make their choices and for their businesses to thrive. on the question of the differences in drug prices: we made a sector enquiry, or the previous commission did, regarding the rules in that sector and how things were handled when it came to patent. some of the price differences actually may be ascribed to the differences among member states in how drugs are subsidised. of course, we will be happy to follow up on that as we do with our sector enquiry in patents – we do follow-up reports every year. tax has been another issue which has been at the centre of our debate tonight. i will of course do my best to use the competition tools to get into the cases where we see fiscal aid and where tax rulings are being used to enable unfair competition because we think that is against the basis of our competition values. when it comes to energy a number of commitments have been made which has made, i think, the desirable effort to open up our markets. last but not least, also in this area, we have imbalances between the competences of the member state and the competences of our common union. for instance, when it comes to the energy mix, we may have differences in how we view nuclear power for instance. but it is within the scope of the member state to decide their energy mix. what we are doing when it comes to state aid is of course to make sure that there is no overcompensation and that taxpayers’ money is not overspent. and as the last and most important thing, and i hope it will be appreciated in a parliament working so hard on transparency, that with state aid modernisation we get a much larger degree of transparency with regard to how taxpayers’ money is used so that not only the media but also the citizen can follow their money in order to make their politicians accountable. i think we will come back to the digital market also of course when we start to debate the digital single market and the proposal that the commission will put forward relatively soon. thank you very much for this debate. i think it is a very good platform for our future cooperation.
in writing.– state aid rules under the eu’s competition policies are being taken to extremes in the case of transport systems available to communities living in peripheral islands. insisting that such connections should survive on the basis of supply and demand in compliance with state aid rules undermines the welfare of communities. relevant transport services to such communities, even when subsidised appropriately, have no impact on the competitive environment of the eu as a whole. the demise of cyprus airways recently is a case in point. one asks what socio-economic benefits resulted from it at european or island level. the same applies to the case of air malta and to the sea connections between malta and the island of gozo. air malta needed and still needs to implement reforms. but making these fit the strait jacket of eu competition policy is distorting and sometimes blocking the path to recovery. yet, the volume of air malta’s business is in no way significant compared to eu air traffic in the mediterranean. gozo suffers from a double insularity, with huge diseconomies of scale when maintaining its communications infrastructure. subjecting sea transport between malta and gozo to overall competition rules amounts to nonsense.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the commission of the application presented by poland to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission has now presented parliament with a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of poland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, in order to activate the fund the commission, in the event of an application receiving a positive assessment, presents a proposal for mobilisation of the fund to the budgetary authority and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in the event of disagreement, a trilogue shall be initiated. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies of 615 workers working in the ʽmanufacture of chemicals and chemical productsʼ sector are linked to a decline in the european unionʼs market share of the chemical industry. fifty redundant workers in the most disadvantaged situation will be targeted by the european globalisation fund measures which include hiring incentives and intervention works. i have therefore voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration of disadvantaged workers in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in the kujawsko-pomorskie province, poland. the application relates to 615 redundancies in zaklady chemiczne zachem and to two suppliers, operating in the nace 2 division 20 manufacture of chemicals and chemical products, during the reference period from 31 march 2013 to 31 july 2013. the egaf funding provides assistance for the reintegration of 50 redundant workers into employment. since the report aims to help workers who need support to re-enter the work-market i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 404 workers in poland due to the reduction in market share of the chemical industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund – application egf/2013/009 pl/zachem. the report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in kujawsko-pomorskie province, poland. the application relates to 615 redundancies in zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, operating in the nace 2 division 20 ʽmanufacture of chemicals and chemical productsʼ, during the reference period from 31 march 2013 to 31 july 2013. the egf funding of eur 115 205 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 50 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ the commission has concluded that the application by the german authorities meets the conditions for deploying the european globalisation adjustment fund set out in article 4(1)(a) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 december 2013. it is interesting to note that the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes a number of useful measures such as vocational training, careers advice and guidance for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers into employment at a very difficult point in time. it is worrying to note that this company is just one of many other european solar enterprises that have become insolvent, quit the solar business, shut down production wholly or partially, or sold out to chinese investors over the past few years (since 2010). i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to support the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report states that 657 workers previously operating in the manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products have been made redundant. european globalisation adjustment fund measures will target 476 redundant workers, to seek their reintegration in the labour market. personalised services will include vocational training, careers advice and guidance, peer groups/workshops, entrepreneurship advice, inter-regional advice for mobility and job search by a professional job searcher. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will provide additional opportunities and support to the workers (and their families) affected by these redundancies.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in germany, in the area of prenzlau in the german federal state of brandenburg. the application relates to 657 redundancies of two sites of aleo solar ag, operating in the solar module manufacturing sector, during the reference period from 7 march 2014 to 7 july 2014. the egaf funding provides assistance for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers into employment. as the report aims to help workers who need support to re-enter the work market, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 476 workers in germany due to the downward shift amongst solar module companies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report giving the green light for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in germany, in the area of prenzlau in the german federal state of brandenburg. the application relates to 657 redundancies at two sites of aleo solar ag, which operates in the solar module manufacturing sector, during the reference period from 7 march 2014 to 7 july 2014.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is an essential instrument to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i am glad to note that the coordinated package of personalised services, which was presented by the belgian authorities in the case of hainaut steel (duferco - nlmk) represents a number of active labour market measures with the aim of re-integrating the workers into the labour market. the commission has now concluded that the application meets the conditions for deploying the egf as set out in article 2(b) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ a total of 708 personnel working in the manufacture of basic metals have been made redundant. such redundancies are linked to a decline in the european unionʼs market share in the steel production sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund measures recommended will seek the reintegration of 701 redundant workers into employment through individual job search assistance, case management and general information services, training and retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship. i have thus voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium. the application was submitted following the 708 redundancies in the enterprises duferco belgium sa and nlmk la louvière sa operating in the steel sector, in the reference period from 22 january 2013 to 22 october 2013. the package includes measures such as individual job-search assistance, general information services, training, retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship. the report aims to help workers who need support to re-enter the work market, hence i voted in favour of such measures.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 708 workers in belgium due to the decline in market share in the steel industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in belgium. the application was submitted following the 708 redundancies in the enterprises duferco belgium sa and nlmk la louvière sa operating in the steel sector, in the reference period from 22 january 2013 to 22 october 2013. the egf funding will contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services for the reintegration of 701 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ the current economic climate and in particular the serious economic disruptions facing the steel production sector across the eu has led the belgian authorities to request the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to provide a coordinated package of personalised services in three main areas: redeployment, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship. a decrease in demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis and a relative increase of production costs has damaged the euʼs competitiveness in this industry and consequently led to a number of job losses and plant closures or restructuring in this sector. after studying the information provided by the belgian authority, the commission concluded that this application meets the conditions to deploy the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report states that 1 285 employees working in the ʽmanufacture of basic metalsʼ have been made redundant due to the decline in production of crude steel which has undergone serious economic disruption, in particular a rapid decline of the eu’s market share. in total 910 persons will participate in the co-founded personalised services which will include redeployment, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship. i have thus voted in favour of this report which seeks to redress the situation.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium. the application was submitted following 1 285 redundancies in arcelor mittal liège s.a., a company operating in the manufacture of basic metals, during and after the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded covers three main areas: redeployment, training, and promotion of entrepreneurship (including support for enterprise creation and collective projects). i voted in favour of such measures.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 910 workers in belgium due to the decline in market share in the manufacture of base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for belgium. the application was submitted following 1 285 redundancies at arcelormittal liège s.a., a company operating in the manufacture of basic metals, during and after the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014. the egf funding will contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of 910 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i am glad to note that the request by the belgian authorities to mobilise funds under the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has met all the eligible criteria laid down in the egf regulation. regretfully, the redundancies are expected to have a huge negative impact on the region. the region is already facing a very difficult labour market situation due to its over-reliance on traditional industrial employment and lack of new industries. the report stresses that in this particular environment, it is important that the coordinated package of personalised services improves the employability of all the workers by being adapted not only to the needs of the dismissed workers, but also to the actual business environment of the region. i am also glad to note that this report also highlights the need for the future use of the provisions of the egf regulation to support young people not in employment, education or training (neets) in this region. i believe that the emphasis on the employability of young people in the region is essential for a healthy and prosperous economic future of this region. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in total, 1 030 persons working in the manufacture of machinery and equipment have been made redundant in the light of changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. of these, 630 workers are expected to benefit from co-financed measures that lead to durable, long-term employment. such personalised services will include redeployment, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship. i have thus voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this vote is regarding the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant, due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to data referred to by the belgian authorities, state that caterpillar has been strongly affected by declining demands for this type of products in europe, which has led to the delocalisation to third countries of substantial production capacity. i voted in favour of this report since it aims to help workers who need support to re-enter the work market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 630 workers in belgium due to the decline in internal demand for the manufactured machinery and equipment produced by caterpillar belgium s.a.
in writing. ‒ i fully support mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for application egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar, which will contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services for the reintegration of redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendments to council directive 96/53/ec lay down for certain road vehicles circulating within the european union the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. the amendments focus on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, improve road safety, adapt the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs, and to facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting the road infrastructure. it should be noted that in order to avoid any distortions of competition and to ensure road safety member states have the responsibility to ensure that infringements in relation to overloaded vehicles are properly addressed. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the directive in question seeks to improve the general safety of vehicles, drivers and road users and enhance environmental performance by cutting fuel consumption and emissions. such a directive would also eliminate unnecessary red tape in the case of a multi-modal transport operation. i have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the new directive referred to in this report would promote the use of alternative power trains and aerodynamic flaps thus contributing to reductions in co2 emissions, fuel savings and road safety. the new rules also establish that manufactures may produce longer cabs if they are more energy efficient and safer. member states will also be free to choose either infrastructure devices or on—board weighing devices to be used for pre—selections for checks. such changes will potentially have a good effect both on the environment and on the industry itself, hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which has as its aim the introduction of newly designed lorries with improved overall safety and environmental performance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles circulating within the community. the new directive would promote the use of alternative power-trains and aerodynamic flaps and cabs, thus contributing to reductions in co2 emissions, fuel savings and road safety. the directive also reduces the administrative burden for use of 45—foot containers in intermodal transport.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the text as negotiated by parliament and i voted in favour. europe needs smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the focus of this regulation is to boost european long-term investments (eltif) in the real economy. long-term finance is one of the vehicles to attain this aim through infrastructure projects, machinery and equipment, education and research results. eltif investors will have to be ready and able to make a long—term commitment, which by its very nature does not offer quick returns, but growth in the long-run. parliament’s negotiators ensured that a number of provisions have been inserted in the draft proposal to ensure that long-term funds are really beneficial to the euʼs economy and growth, they are not invested in speculative assets and that any retail investors in them are properly informed and protected.
in writing. ‒ this regulation will increase the capital available for long—term investment in the economy of the european union through a new form of fund vehicle to stimulate growth and generate more jobs. the european long—term investment funds will channel funds for long-term projects that should drive growth in the long-run and generate durable, long-term employment. this regulation will create a regulatory framework for the vehicle to ensure that such funds are subject to consistent rules across the eu. i have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report dealing with european long-term investment funds since this is a proposal for a new type of collective investment framework allowing investors to put money into companies and projects that need long-term capital. eltifs are designed to increase the amount of non-bank finance available for companies investing in the real economy of the european union. i supported this agreement particularly since it attempts to ensure that investments mainly flow into the eu whilst making sure that there will be full transparency on the geographical location of the funds.
in writing. ‒ this report confirmed that the proposed regulation will boost european long-term investments in the real economy. the current financial crisis has demonstrated that complementing bank financing with more diverse sources of financing may help narrow any gaps in financing. these long-term investments in projects, undertakings and infrastructure will benefit the eu economy. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as such investments should be facilitated in order to be implemented as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) is a proposal for a new type of collective investment framework allowing investors to put money into companies and projects that need long-term capital. eltifs are designed to increase the amount of non-bank finance available for companies investing in the real economy of the european union. i fully supported the outcome of the negotiations, which in my opinion will ensure that investments flow in the main into the eu.
in writing. ‒ this regulation, combined with the proposed revised payment services directive, will create common rules for interchange fees in the european union by introducing maximum fees for transactions with payment cards that are widely used by consumers and thereby difficult to refuse or surcharge by retailers. the draft rules also aim to enhance fee transparency, so as to stimulate competition and enable both retailers and users to choose the card schemes that offer them the best terms. this is yet another measure that benefits the consumer. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this regulation will create caps on fees that banks charge retailers for processing shoppers’ payments. this will reduce fees and introduce a maximum fee that banks and other payment service providers charge for payment with debit and credit cards. the regulation will also introduce transparency measures so that retailers and consumers can make better informed choices concerning payment instruments. i have thus voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal sets a cap on multilateral interchange fees (mifs) paid by a trader’s bank to the bank of a credit or debit card holder. in fact, lack of competition in this sector is a reason for high interchange fees which are finally paid by consumers. the cap would apply to both cross-border and domestic card-based payments and should cut costs for card users. the rules also aim to enhance fee transparency, so as to stimulate competition and enable both retailers and users to choose the card schemes that offer them the best terms. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it as an important consumer policy reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it will finally cap the high fees that are charged to retailers to process credit or debit card payments. this legislation should therefore result in savings for consumers and businesses alike across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i was really happy to vote in favour of the regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. this regulation is an important consumer policy reform based on which consumers can look forward to saving eur 730 million every year. the legislation will set caps for card payment fees that banks can charge retailers when a purchase is made via a debit or credit card. as retailers in turn usually pass on the fees to the customer, the new ceilings should lead to lower prices for goods and services.
in writing. ‒ i support the positive recommendation to activate mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following an application by the belgian authorities. the report underscores the relation between sgs beneluxʼs activities in the manufacture of safety glass for the automotive industry and production trends in the automotive industry, which saw the production of passenger cars in the eu decrease from 21.9 million units to 19.5 million units between 2007 and 2012. on the other hand, in the rest of the world, this increased from 47.5 million units to 60.6 million units during the same period. another element which was detrimental to this sector was an increase in the market shares of competitors from non-eu countries and an increase in imports of these products into the union. the reports notes that the redundancies at sgs mainly concern production-line workers. the dismissed workers will have to be retrained to find jobs in other occupations and/or other sectors. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in total, 257 employees working in the manufacture of safety glass for the automotive industry have been made redundant. this has been linked to the decline in the production of automotive safety glass in the european union. the co-funded measures for the reintegration of the 257 redundant workers into employment will include individual job-search assistance, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship. i have thus voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration of the redundant workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that gives the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium. the application relates to 257 redundancies made at sgs benelux that is manufacturing safety glass for the automotive industry, before and during the reference period from 31 august 2013 to 31 december 2013. the egf funding shall contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of redundant workers into employment: individual job-search assistance, case management and general information services; training and retraining, promotion of entrepreneurship, allowances (including the relocation allowance and recruitment incentive).
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 257 workers in belgium due to the downward shift in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on a report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in belgium. the application relates to 257 redundancies made at sgs benelux which manufactures safety glass for the automotive industry, before and during the reference period from 31 august 2013 to 31 december 2013. although the part of the intervention criteria relating to the minimum number of redundancies (500) during the reference period has not been met, due to the significant effects of the redundancies, derogation to the rule has been approved.
in writing. ‒ this is a very good report. it contains a number of fundamental questions and values which i support and endorse, although i still believe that there is still a lot of work that needs to be done in this area. the report draws up a scoresheet on the progress achieved in the area of gender equality in europe in 2013. it highlights amongst others, a number of important elements to reach equality between both sexes: existing problems related to wage differences between female and male employees, the persistence of violence against women, female entrepreneurship, the barcelona targets for gender equality, the promotion of work-life balance and combating gender stereotypes. on the other hand, the report also promotes ʽthe right to abortionʼ, which does not come under the euʼs competence. i believe that the principle of subsidiarity, which is one of the founding principles of the eu, should be respected in this case. it is for this particular reason that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this own-initiative report which draws up a scoresheet of the progress achieved in the area of gender equality in europe. the report highlights areas of progress in achieving gender equality. it emphasises the fact that the female employment rate is still low, that the gender pay gap stands at 16.4 % and it sheds light on several important criteria that still need to be fulfilled to reach equality. these include the elimination of wage differences between women and men, violence against women, the promotion of work-life balance, as well as the need to achieve the barcelona targets in the european pact for gender equality (2011-2020). i support and promote these fundamental values and actions. the report also calls for promoting a ʽright to abortionʼ, an issue that is not within the euʼs competence and such a call for an eu policy on sexual and reproductive rights violates the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. as voted the report is contradictory in itself on this issue. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which emphasises the need for equality between men and women; however i voted against all clauses related to abortion. i agree with the focus of the report on a number of important issues including the need to fight poverty, the need to have more women in high positions, boards and secure jobs, the need to have the maternity leave directive in place and to have paternity leave. the need for women and men to receive the same salaries for the same work they do and the need to address domestic violence in an effective manner. whilst acknowledging that this is an important resolution, this does not in any way mean that i am in favour of abortion.
in writing. ‒ this report regrettably included unacceptable references to abortion. despite my full support for gender equality and my commitment to achieving this goal, i could not support this report.
in writing. ‒ the universal declaration of human rights states that ‘all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights’. voting on a report on equality between women and men in the eu, two days after international women’s day, is an excellent opportunity to highlight the progress in the respect of equal opportunities for women and men across europe. furthermore, the report evaluates the different areas where progress is lacking in equal treatment (gender pay, pension and poverty gaps), actions needed in the field of violence against women, labour market discrimination, women in decision making, stereotypes and media etc., with which i fully agree. however, i expressed my reservations and voted against the paragraphs calling on member states to implement measures on abortion, sexual health and reproductive rights. the eu has no competences on abortion policy at national level and can therefore not interfere in member states policies in this area, which we should fully respect.
in writing. ‒ having regard to my positive vote on the report ‘progress on equality between women and men in the eu in 2013’, i would like to clarify that such a vote excludes approval for those clauses which signify acceptance of abortion and against which i voted separately when roll call votes were called.
in writing. ‒ this report is parliament’s response to the annual commission 2013 report on eu competition policy, which outlines the commission’s legislative activities, the application of state aid, antitrust and merger rules. it calls for a swift end to the state-aid crisis regime for the banking sector, as this has neither increased credit nor restored confidence. regarding antitrust and cartels, the report underlines that the use of fines as the sole sanction tool available may not be effective enough and reiterates its call to the commission to consider a general review of its 2006 fining guidelines and calls for the fining guidelines to be integrated into regulation 1/2013. another matter raised in the report is the misuse of structural funds. a rather important role in the report is devoted to fiscal state aid. the report stresses that fairer tax competition is indispensable for the integrity of the internal market and encourages the commission to vigilantly enforce eu state-aid control rules, while keeping parliament informed of the main progress in investigations to ensure they are being conducted in a transparent and independent manner. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ every year the commission issues its report on competition policy which outlines both its legislative activities and application of state-aid, antitrust and merger rules. a reinforced focus on promoting competition is necessary for the achievement of objectives on jobs, growth and global competitiveness of the european economy. this report calls for competition policy focusing particularly on protecting consumers, improving consumer welfare, fostering innovation and stimulating economic growth. i support such a policy which could play a key role in reinforcing the holistic approach to the single market aimed at addressing europe’s economic, social and environmental challenges which needs to be in full respect of national diversities. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a whole since it stresses that a reinforced focus on promoting competition is necessary for the achievement of the ambitious objectives for jobs, growth, investment and the global competitiveness of the european economy, as it is sustainable and effective competition that drives investment and end-user benefits and fuels the economy. however i voted against clauses which refer to harmonisation of taxes. i believe that tax regimes are the competence of the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ an effective competition policy would increase the eu’s global economic importance. it is essential that the competition policy meets the demands of the digital age and that the goals of creating a digital single market remain at the centre of the drive to increase employment levels across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the annual report on competition policy, which makes it clear that competition policy and competitiveness in general, is of vital importance to the health and success of the eu as a whole and therefore its citizens. the report tries to ensure fair competition and combat social dumping on the labour market, tackle fragmentation and anti-trust behaviour in the eu digital market. i agree with the line of the rapporteur that ‘competitiveness’ must be at the forefront of our political agenda. having said that, however, i do not support some of the paragraphs in this report calling for a coordinated proposal on tax competition.
in writing. ‒ this report goes a long way in showing the very good job the european central bank is doing. we must also keep in mind, that despite the ecb’s best efforts at enhancing growth in the eu; this remains a great challenge that we must all persevere to overcome. this annual report clearly shows that the ecb is in touch with the needs of the banking sector, but this is not enough and much more needs to be done. one such measure that could go a long way to meeting this challenge is the capital markets union that is currently being discussed. europe must advance from banking finance to private equity in order to support the creative ideas of entrepreneurship in europe. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which welcomes the actions of the european central bank (ecb) in a situation of low growth and inflation. on the other hand the report also warns of the need to remain vigilant about these policies. the report stresses the importance of having the right mix of policies between monetary policy, fiscal policies and structural reforms. the report has also expressed concern about the level of public and private investment in the euro area which has remained relatively low. attention has also been drawn towards the social situation which has deteriorated sharply, especially in countries hit by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since its main message is that monetary policy alone is reaching its limits, even if we support the expansionary approach taken by the ecb. it also suggests that we need the right policy mix of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because of its support for the european central bank’s rapid response to the challenging and changing economic environment. the european central bank’s measures to maintain investors’ confidence in the euro and its efforts to do all that it can to save the euro are welcome.
in writing. ‒ i supported the main message of this report, which is that monetary policy alone is reaching its limits, even if we support the expansionary approach taken by the ecb, and that we need the right policy mix of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investments.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i start by congratulating mr rosati, our rapporteur on the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for his fine work. i thank our shadow rapporteurs for their valuable inputs. the analysis and conclusions on the annual growth survey are well in line with the parameters of the stability and growth pact (sgp). however, i must register some unease at aspects of our proceedings. as of now we lack a real understanding as to why the economic performance of national economies has remained so dull, indeed so stagnant. similarly, we cannot grasp the real reason why the investment gap in the eurozone has remained so significant. true, we see glimmers of growth now and we wish for the best. rightly, much emphasis is being placed on the flexibility that is presently being read into sgp rules. over—rigid application of these rules has been counterproductive. let us hope that flexibility will be applied equally and fairly to all economies and not just the bigger ones. so let me repeat that structural reforms are necessary but, as i said elsewhere, they should not mean an erosion of the european social model. where structural reforms refer to elimination of monopolies, freer access to the provision of services, curtailment and digitalisation of government bureaucracy, incentivising those who produce, streamlining public procurement practices and the encouragement of public-private partnerships, such reforms should be given full support. yet, it seems to me that we still do not have a viable approach to tackle regional and national divergences within the eurozone, and they have been increasing. i am uneasy because, having a 19—economy system, working to the model of a quasi—balance in all national budgets is not axiomatically the optimal way to run a currency area. yes, we have jargon-laden discourse to correct for so-called macroeconomic imbalances, but there is a vagueness about how to implement corrective action on this basis. there still is no valid reply to the question: are country—specific recommendations designed to satisfy eurozone or national priorities? therefore, i am not too surprised that so many csrs are ignored by national parliaments and governments. in the absence of a central treasury to regulate transfers between centre and periphery, much of the exercise that we are carrying out now could be compared to that of a circus performer on a high rope, juggling with 19 balls. of course, in order to succeed, such a juggling operation needs commitment, discipline and a high level of competence.
overall, mr president, i am pleased to note that the report places a strong emphasis on elements aimed at boosting economic growth, job creation at all age levels and a particular interest in social progress, while respecting the european social model. on the other hand, these ambitious economic projects cannot be implemented in a vacuum. they should be implemented in parallel with fiscal consolidation and the use of a degree of flexibility in the area of stability and growth pact regulations, with a particular focus on social investment in the citizen. this concept is crucial in creating sustainable, inclusive and quality jobs. we particularly welcome the various measures announced by the commission to drastically increase job creation within small businesses and hope that these measures will be implemented without undue delay. while it is widely recognised that small businesses are the backbone of the european union's economic activity, they are unfortunately still hampered by excessive administrative burdens and red tape. in view of all this, it is clear that more needs to be done to support this important sector of the economy with investments and job creation. finally, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and shadows for the important work they do, in particular sofia for her important work.
in writing. ‒ this proposal seeks to codify an existing regulation that deals with common rules for imports of textiles originating in third countries and not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. during trialogue negotiations the commission did not introduce new elements to the original recast proposal. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is a technical proposal that seeks to codify two existing regulations that deal with common rules on surveillance and safeguard measures regarding common rules for imports from third countries. due to the fact that this is a technical procedure with the contents of the regulations being preserved, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification of common rules for imports from certain third countries and the recasting of certain elements of the regulation that concerns these common rules. the major changes were technical corrections and the removal of countries that have become members of the world trade organisation. therefore i voted in favour of this report as codification of european regulations is essential for transparency and citizen involvement in eu decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports from certain third countries (recast). the report is a technical proposal that seeks to codify two existing regulations that deal with common rules.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i have thus voted in favour of the report on codification.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for the codification of the act regarding the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro fully preserves the content of said act. due to the fact that this is a technical procedure with the contents of the regulations being preserved, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended many times be codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report for a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i thus voted in favour of the report on codification.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for the codification of the act regarding eu tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pig meat, poultry meat, wheat and brans, fully preserves the content of said act. due to the fact that this is a technical procedure with the contents of the regulations being preserved, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residue, because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended many times be codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues (codification).
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i thus voted in favour of the report on codification.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for the codification of the act regarding the import into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey fully preserves the content of said act. due to the fact that this is a technical procedure with the contents of the regulations being preserved, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey into the eu because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended many times be codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. the proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i thus voted in favour of the report on codification.
in writing. ‒ this proposal deals with the codification of the act on suspending certain concessions on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. due to the fact that this is a technical procedure with the contents of the regulations being preserved i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the suspension of certain concessions relating to the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended many times be codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on suspending certain concessions relating to the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) with the aim of overseeing the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of resources in the mediterranean sea. the agreement is being amended to clarify the objectives and functions of the gfcm, and strengthen its efficiency. the main changes include a clearer explanation of the purpose of the gfcm agreement, better defined functions of the gfcm, provisions for the establishment of measures/sanctions to address non-compliance by members/non-members and the establishment of a well-defined dispute settlement mechanism. such measures will play a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this reports suggests another round of reforms for the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) which is responsible for the promotion of common fishery management, the establishment of fisheries restricted areas and data collection in the mediterranean sea. these include a clearer explanation of the purpose of the gfcm agreement and better defined functions of the gfcm. it also deals with provisions for the establishment of measures/sanctions to address non-compliance by members/non-members and the establishment of a well-defined dispute settlement mechanism in case disputes arise between contracting parties. as the report aims at updating the commission’s operation i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report because i share the rapporteur’s view that the modified agreement regarding the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean will further the development and the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the area of application.
in writing. ‒ the agreement for the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was approved by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952. an amendment of the gfcm agreement was launched in 2013 and negotiated with the gfcm contracting parties. the negotiations were carried out by member states and the commission as per their respective areas of competence. i supported the main changes to this agreement, such as a clearer explanation of the purpose of the gfcm agreement and better—defined functions of the gfcm.
in writing. ‒ the committee on legal affairs considered requests for the waiver of immunity of mr zagorakis having regard to the complexity of the case, and made a proposal for a reasoned decision which recommended the adoption of the request for the waiver of immunity; thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev.
in writing. ‒ the report signals the beginning of the budgetary procedure for parliament and sets the political tone and coveys the main budgetary priorities of parliament. such priorities include the creation of employment and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the union. the report recalls that the eu budget is a tool of internal solidarity in that it supports economic, social and territorial cohesion. the report urges the commission to give due importance to the priorities set by the parliament when establishing the draft budget 2016. it also urges the council to live up to the expectations of its own commitments. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the key points outlined, including the fact that the eu budget is to be considered as a tool to create employment, enterprises, entrepreneurship for sustainable growth in the eu, the european investment plan, and the fight against the payment crisis. i believe in the importance of the principle of additionally in the context of the european investment plan and to end the payment crisis, which is contradictory to the european goals set at highest political level and undermines the credibility of the eu. since the report gives due attention to the need for the 2016 budget to create employment, growth and also foster an entrepreneurial spirit, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the importance of smes in the eu, highlighting the fact that there are more than 20 million smes in the eu and that they account for 99% of all businesses. it expresses the need to restore a favourable business environment and use the 2016 budget to give smes back their role as main job creators in the union. therefore i voted in favour of this report as it presents clear guidelines for the 2016 budget, which is expected to directly benefit the eu's citizens and business.
in writing. ‒ this report on the guidelines sets out the main political priorities for the 2016 budget. i fully support the key points of this report, with the eu budget being a tool to create employment, enterprises, entrepreneurship for sustainable growth in the eu, the european investment plan, and improving the unemployment situation, and the need to ensure financing of the youth employment initiative as from 2016.
in writing. ‒ the commission is required to produce an annual report on the protection of the euʼs financial interest, detailing measures taken to counter fraud affecting eu funds. to further protect against irregularities and fraudulent activities, the commission checks whether national administrative practices are in line with eu rules, and whether the member states’ control systems are working properly. the commission also controls whether all substantiating documents are provided and if they comply with eu requirements. in addition, the commission may carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections to verify member statesʼ adherence to the rules. according to the report, an effective action against corruption is possible if criminal law measures are complemented by other measures such as appropriate level of transparency and accountability. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses specifically on the fight against fraud particularly when it comes to eu funds. potential fraudulent irregularities detected in the last five years showed a slow decrease but the number of irregularities not reported as fraudulent has progressively increased. i agree with the call on the commission to examine in detail what is leading to this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stresses the work that still needs to be done to combat fraud and also takes note of the positive steps that the commission and member states have taken to combat fraud. the wide range of legal and administrative measures taken by the commission since 2011 has enhanced the policy for the protection of the eu’s financial interests. whilst recognising the measures member states have taken to detect, evaluate and report financial irregularities, the report stresses the need for an increased exchange of best practices in order to ensure stronger ex-ante coordination and evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report for 2013 on the protection of the eu's financial interests - fight against fraud, which notes that the overall trend in detecting and reporting potential fraudulent irregularities in the last five years shows a slow decrease but the number of irregularities not reported as fraudulent has progressively increased.
in writing. ‒ the parliament resolution takes stock of the commission's 2014 progress report on montenegro. parliament welcomes the progress made by montenegro in its accession negotiation process by opening sixteen chapters and provisionally closing two. while commending the legislative progress achieved with regard to the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption, it adds that more needs to be done on the ground. parliament is concerned that due to the deeply polarised domestic climate the main opposition party has boycotted some parliamentary sessions. in this vein, parliament encourages sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation, especially within parliament, and urges all political parties to focus their energy on the country's eu accession. whilst parliament commended montenegro for its pro-active participation and constructive role in regional and international cooperation and regional reconciliation, it is encouraged to address the outstanding bilateral issues with its neighbouring countries as early as possible in the negotiation process. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations. the adoption of anti-corruption laws, particularly on lobbying, general administrative procedure, public procurement and amendments to the laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest are important steps toward accession. i am concerned about media freedom and the weak professional and ethical standards among media practitioners in montenegro. strong political commitment is essential for the deep and lasting political reforms necessary to strengthen the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which commends montenegro on the progress achieved so far, noting that sixteen negotiating chapters have been opened and two provisionally closed. it encourages the continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of implemented reforms, particularly in the fields of the rule of law, freedom of expression, and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ this resolution highlights the positive strides that montenegro has made to formulate policies that create a climate of tolerance and inclusion for all communities within the country. it also stresses the need to address the outstanding bilateral issues with its neighbours and settle the still pending border demarcation and succession issues with croatia, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo. i therefore voted in favour of this motion as it outlines the advancements made in fulfilling the accession criteria and the work that is yet to be completed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress achieved by montenegro on the path to eu accession. parliament encourages continuation of eu related reforms, and insists on the need to fight corruption more effectively.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the commission's 2014 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. parliament called once again for the opening of accession negotiations with the country, citing the fact that further delays in opening negotiations might have a negative impact on the reform processes in the country and the credibility of the eu in the region. it further added that bilateral issues should not hinder the accession process and calls on the council once again to set a date for the start of the accession negotiations. the resolution further recalls the commitment of member states to return to the name issue in 2015 with a view to the opening of accession negotiations. this could also hasten the implementation of much- needed reforms, especially on the rule of law, independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. parliament expressed its serious concern at the worsening of relations between the government and the opposition, particularly the recent accusations and counter-accusations of wrongdoing. parliament calls for an independent investigation to take place into all allegations and surveillance carried out. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made further progress in improving its ability to take on the obligations of eu membership the country has completed the bulk of its reforms as regards the judicial system and the public administration and has made progress since becoming a candidate country in 2005, but the independence and competence of courts also needs to be further enhanced and more focus placed on the quality of justice provided to citizens. recent developments brought about strong accusations between government and opposition and worsened the tense political situation.
in writing. ‒ the report reiterates for the ninth consecutive time its call on the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations without further delay and that bilateral issues should not represent an obstacle to the official opening of the negotiations. however the report also states that the parliament is seriously concerned by the worsening of the relations between the government and the opposition, particularly with regard to recent announcement of charges against the opposition leader by the prime minister. while agreeing with s&d’s call for all political actors in the former yugolsav republic of macedonia to engage in constructive dialogue i have voted in favour of this report which encourages the enlargement process.
in writing. ‒ this resolution highlights the positive strides that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made to reduce unemployment. it also outlines the positive work that has been done in the field of regional cooperation and states that it has no outstanding border issues with its neighbours. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution as it outlines the advancements made in fulfilling the accession criteria and the goals that have yet to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia reiterates for the ninth consecutive time that the council should set a date for the start of accession negotiations without further delay and that bilateral issues should not represent an obstacle to the official opening of the negotiations. i fully support the call on all political actors to engage in constructive dialogue.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution, parliament welcomed the opening of the accession negotiation process with serbia. it welcomes the commitment shown by the serbian government to the european integration process. on the other hand, progress is still lacking as regards the rule of law. parliament welcomed serbia's efforts in the normalisation process with kosovo. further efforts are needed to align its foreign and security policy with that of the eu, to fully implement bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries and to address its open bilateral issues in a pragmatic way. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that serbia continues to sufficiently meet the political criteria of accession to the eu. early parliamentary elections in march confirmed the european integration aspirations of the country and that eu accession remains the main goal of the new government. first steps were taken in the implementation of the national strategies on judicial reform and the fight against corruption. the legal framework for the protection of minorities is broadly in place but its consistent implementation across the country needs to be ensured, notably in the areas of education, use of languages, and access to the media and to religious services in minority languages. i support the report which calls on serbia to ensure consistent implementation across the country of legislation on protection of minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which welcomes the formal beginning of accession talks which took place on 21 january 2014 at the first eu-serbia intergovernmental conference and commends the smooth implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement. however, the report also draws attention to problems in the country, such as media freedom, deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression, lack of transparency in the funding of political parties and election campaigns. the report also invites serbia, among other things, to make further efforts to guarantee equal representation of women in political and public life, to improve the situation of the roma and to ensure consistent implementation across the country of legislation on protection of minorities.
in writing. ‒ this resolution highlights the efforts that serbia has undertaken to fight corruption, and the further implementation of the recommendations of the group of states against corruption. the resolution also stresses the urgent work needed to deal with all pending issues between serbia and kosovo. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution as it outlines the advancements made in fulfilling the accession criteria and the goals that have yet to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i support the opening of the first chapters in the eu enlargement negotiations with this important player in the western balkans this year. however, it should also be underlined that a lot of work lies ahead.
in writing. ‒ the parliament resolution welcomes the end of the political stalemate following the elections. the new government is being encouraged to continue on its european path. parliament highlights in its resolution a number of areas that remain of deep concern, these being the independence, accountability, impartiality and efficiency of judges and prosecutors, the prison system and the performance of the rule of law sector in general. parliament welcomed the meetings taking place between serbia and kosovo. on the other hand, it called on both sides to fully implement the agreements reached by both sides. another element of serious concern are the allegations of corruption made concerning the eulex in kosovo. parliament believes that this mission has played an important role in kosovo, and it has still a role to play. it welcomed the prompt reaction by the vp/hr to appoint an independent expert to probe into the allegations. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution welcomes the end of the six-month political stalemate that followed the elections, with the constitution of the assembly and the appointment of the new government. it encourages the new government to continue its european course and urges it to pursue steps to strengthen and affirm the rule of law. the resolution also stresses the need for urgent actions aimed at fighting the criminal groups that are making irregular migration possible. whereas the resolution welcomes the progress achieved on women’s rights and gender equality it calls for measures to strongly address the challenges and problems regarding domestic violence and gender-based violence. it also expresses concern at the lack of any significant progress in fighting high-level corruption and organised crime and calls upon the authorities to redress the situation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which welcomes the end of the six-month political stalemate that followed the elections. it stresses the urgency for the new government to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment and determination, and notably strengthening the rule of law and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, unemployment, structural economic reforms, and sustainable development. concerns still remain regarding the independence, accountability and impartiality of judges and prosecutors.
in writing. ‒ this resolution outlines the steps that kosovo still needs to achieve in the integration process. the author highlights the need for the kosovo authorities to live up to their responsibility to respect, conserve and protect serbian, as well as all other, cultural and religious monuments, which form part of the common european cultural and historical heritage. the report also calls on the vice-president / high representative and the member states to extend the mandate of the eu special representative for kosovo beyond 28 february 2015. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which is a balanced text that welcomes the end of the six-month political stalemate that followed the elections, with the constitution of the assembly and the appointment of the new government. i support the european integration process of kosovo. however, kosovo’s authorities have to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment, and notably strengthen the rule of law, the fight against corruption, discrimination and unemployment, and structural economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the two reports drafted by parliament concerning the european semester for economic policy coordination on the annual growth survey 2015. as part of the annual european semester cycle, the commission published its annual growth survey 2015 (ags) on 28 november 2014. i voted in favour of the report as it supports the three-pillar approach proposed by the commission: fiscal discipline, structural reforms and investments. the report notes that, although member states which went through an adjustment programme are now slowly recovering from the crisis, their recovery is still very fragile. the report also mentions that what is needed now is a stronger focus on growth-enhancing investments, particularly in relation to smes, and the continuous commitment of member states to deliver on their commitment to complete the single market. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 annual growth survey focuses on putting europe firmly back on a path of sustainable job creation and economic growth. to give a common direction and steer national approaches, the commission recommends three main pillars for the euʼs economic and social policy in 2015: fiscal adjustment, structural reforms and growth enhancing investments. i agree with the objectives of the report, since the global economic and financial crisis, the eu has been suffering from low levels of investment. collective and coordinated efforts at european level are needed for economic recovery. investments are needed to modernise welfare systems, fund education, research and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which welcomes the commission’s new approach to economic policy with focus on growth and investment. it is also insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to re-launch growth in europe. i voted for the report as both its content and the new european semester itself focus on jobs, growth and investment... elements which i truly believe should be the foundation of re-launching europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because of the emphasis given to the need for greater collaboration between the european parliament and the national parliaments in the context of the european semester on economic and budgetary governance. the report also highlights the fact that there has been a significant decrease in the number of countries under the excessive deficit procedure – down to 11 in 2014 from 24 in 2011. it is clear that europe is moving in the right direction to combat the economic downturn.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rosati report, which welcomes the commission's new approach to economic policy, with focus on growth and investment, but also insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to relaunch growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report places strong emphasis on elements aimed at boosting sustainable economic growth, job creation in all age groups and fostering social progress, whilst respecting the european social model. inter alia it lists various measures announced by the commission to boost job creation in smes. whilst smes are widely acknowledged to be the backbone of the union's economy, they are still burdened by unnecessary administration and bureaucracy. on the other hand, these ambitious economic policies need to be pursued in parallel with fiscal consolidation and the use of a degree of flexibility within the rules of the stability and growth pact, particularly in terms of social investment in people. the report calls on member states to implement these measures in a quick and faithful way. it also focuses on the importance of the fight against youth and long-term unemployment, calling for urgent solutions to be found in order to allow a balance between work and family life and to encourage training and learning. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this year, for the first time, the draft joint employment report annexed to the annual growth survey includes a scoreboard for employment and social policies, which will help to strengthen the monitoring of employment and social developments. the eu needs more adaptive and dynamic labour markets, able to adjust to disruptions in the economic situation without causing redundancies and excessive adjustments in salaries. measures for tackling youth unemployment are of the utmost importance. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on the employment and social aspects of the annual growth survey. however, i voted against the inclusion of part of a paragraph which calls for the adoption at council level of an ambitious financial transaction tax. i believe that tax issues should remain a member state competence.
in writing. ‒ this report expressed the need for increased democratic legitimacy of the european semester. if the eu is to have effective governance of the single market, it would be beneficial for national parliaments as well as social partners and civil society organisations to be able to play a role in the formulation, monitoring and implementation of economic and social priorities in the european semester. therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the employment and social aspects of the european semester and annual growth survey are fundamental in order to put europe back on track. we need to ensure that they are given adequate importance, moving forward. therefore i voted in favour of the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. however, i did not support the paragraphs calling for adoption of a more ambitious financial transaction tax.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on single market governance within the european semester 2015 in response to the annual european semester cycle, annual growth survey 2015(ags) as published by the commission. disappointingly, unlike in previous years, the commission has not published, together with the ags, its annual 'report on the single market integration'. it is quite surprising that the analysis of the functioning of the single market and its areas with greatest growth potential has not been published, considering the emphasis that the current commission is placing on the single market and its potential for growth. in view of this, the report builds on previous parliament resolutions on single market governance and underscores the need for a single market pillar to be included in the european semester in order to better support the real economy and stimulate growth and jobs. the report also places emphasis on other important key areas with the biggest growth potential, such as the digital single market, services and the consumer acquis. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ unlike previous years, the commission did not attach the annual growth survey with its annual report on single market integration which would be necessary to attain the objectives on growth and employment. this report builds on parliamentʼs resolutions on single market governance and emphasises the digital single market, free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, and consumer acquis as key areas of growth potential. i support these. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need to consolidate single market governance by establishing an annual single market governance cycle as a specific pillar of the european semester with the aim of revitalising the european economy through a well-functioning, deeper and fairer single market capable of boosting sustainable growth, quality jobs, competitiveness and social cohesion, attracting investment and strengthening the european industrial base.
in writing. ‒ i share the rapporteur’s view that many of the issues encountered by eu businesses and citizens remain unresolved, or are resolved at great cost and after too much time. it is essential for the eu to have streamlined and transparent governance of the single market in order for business and citizens to know their rights and opportunities and fully generate the economic growth they are capable of. therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ for a successful european semester cycle, concrete focus on the real economy is a key priority. therefore, i voted in favour of a coordinated and efficient single market governance cycle focused on key growth sectors, notably the digital single market, consumers and workers, which will boost growth and jobs and ensure economic convergence between the euro and non-euro zones.
in writing. ‒ child sexual abuse online is a crime that is ubiquitous and knows no borders. child pornography offenders are increasingly operating in international online groups that use high standard technology and security protocols to frustrate the efforts of law enforcement to investigate their crimes. we need to focus on prevention and need effective campaigns to support parents and educators on how to identify the online risks and an effective mechanism for reporting suspected sexual behaviour. we need further eu action with the commitment of online platforms, internet providers and other stakeholders outside of the eu as well to fight against online child exploitation and to build powerful reporting tools and educational resources.
in writing. ‒ as a signatory of the joint motion for resolution on the fight against child sexual abuse on the internet and as a convinced advocate on the matter i was more than happy to vote in favour of this joint motion for resolution which signals that the european parliament wants to take this measure seriously. this motion for a resolution emphasises a key principle that i have brought forward to the european parliament last february including the need to educate children through awareness campaigns, self-regulation by the industry and the need to address the darknet.
in writing. ‒ as one of the co-authors of this motion for a resolution, i voted in favour of its adoption. the resolution highlights the need for further steps to combat cyber grooming, and urges the commission, national governments, civil society, social media companies and all care givers to play an active role in raising awareness of this issue through defined guidelines and exchanging best practices on how to tackle and identify cyber grooming. it is also crucial that international cooperation and transnational investigations in this area improve.
in writing. ‒ i fully support directive 2011/93/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which harmonises criminal offences relating to sexual abuse committed against children, the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography throughout the eu.
madam president, the report addresses different issues of human rights, often focusing on those issues in which more eu action is needed. but i would like to see a stronger eu framework for carrying out such action; a framework with focused, effective actions assisting third countries in the process of democratisation, with the actions not only being named as priorities but also having actual and measurable targets. in doing so, the eu must be seen to be consistent in upholding these principles. therefore, coherence between internal and external human rights policies needs to be enhanced. in relation to a specific issue, suppression of the media and of expression creates oppression and serves only those who seize power at the expense of the best interests of their people and their country, thereby leading to instability and humanitarian crises which, in turn, lead also to migration towards – and tragedies on – eu territories. in this regard, focused effective action with third countries is a must.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, libya was the first point i put on the agenda for the foreign ministers meeting last friday and saturday in riga – in the very north and east of our european union – to show very clearly that just as we are united when we look at the challenges and threats we have to our east, we do the same with the challenges and threats we have to the south of us. because the threats we are facing from libya in these weeks are, more so than in all the past months and years, threats not only to the southern countries of our european union but threats and challenges for the whole of the european union itself. since we discussed the situation in libya in this chamber last january this has been, i would say, together with the ukrainian crisis, the top priority of my personal work. work that has been difficult, that is still very difficult, made up of creating the network of international and regional support for the efforts to support and to have political dialogue, under the auspices of the un, in the dialogue that is currently ongoing in rabat under the work of the un secretary—generalʼs special envoy, bernardino león. i started to work on this international and regional framework a few weeks ago when in washington. the european union has promoted a meeting between the secretary-general of the united nations ban ki-moon, myself for the european union, secretary kerry and mr shoukry, the foreign minister of egypt, to try to build a framework that could keep all relevant actors – there are many others involved as well on a bilateral basis, but the main political actors, main relevant actors – together in full support of the internal dialogue in libya. that dialogue has restarted since january. it has restarted now in rabat. i was in a session at one of these dialogues before, exactly four months ago today, in tripoli. i was in the same hotel corinthia that was then attacked by terrorists at the end of january, together with not only bernardino león but also secretary-general ban ki-moon, in one of the last sessions of the dialogue before we restarted a couple of days ago. i can say that the fact that the dialogue has restarted is something on which we would probably not have bet just a few months ago. this is the result of sometimes silent but constant and difficult diplomatic work we have done together with the un, in an incredible way, in these months. the european union supports this dialogue not only politically but also financially. there are other tracks of dialogue going on. they do not always make the news headlines but i think it is fair for this chamber to know and recognise the work that is done on parallel levels. there is currently a dialogue going on in algeria between political parties. on monday – so just a few days ago – there was a meeting in brussels of more than 40 businessmen from all different parts of libya which produced a joint statement asking for the political dialogue to bring the result of a national unity government so that they can be put in the situation of restarting the reconstruction of their country and the improvement of the economic and social situation of all the libyan people, united together. we will host in the european union institutions in brussels in the coming days a dialogue between municipalities and mayors so that grass-roots local level dialogue can accompany the political dialogue that is taking place hopefully in rabat again in these days. i have talked to bernardino león today about the state of play of this political dialogue. we were discussing that too with secretary-general ban ki-moon on monday in new york and this morning again with the secretary-general of the league of arab states. i will have a conversation later today with the egyptian foreign minister. this is all to say that we need to make sure that all actors are pushing in the same direction. i forgot to say, but that was not out of any political intention, that this was also a subject of my meeting with the turkish foreign minister a few days ago in riga. we have to make sure that all relevant international, regional and local actors – local level, national level – push in the same direction. we have to make sure that the dialogue continues and we have to make sure that the dialogue brings the result of a national unity government. terrorism, confronting the threat of daesh, uncontrolled migration, regional instability – these are only some of the challenges we have in front of us in libya and the unity government in libya is vital to addressing all these issues and many more. libya is a rich country full of financial natural resources which if put together, if provided with authorities, can perform very well. what we need to do is ensure that there is a restart, a reset somehow, that allows a government to be in place that can work in all the territory and with all the people of libya. it will be vital to addressing these challenges, it will be vital first of all to giving all libyans the security and the living conditions that the country can offer and that they deserve after so many difficult years. as i have said, these are not only libyan problems. they concern all of us. the international community must contribute in all possible ways and as a matter of urgency to solve these problems. here, continued strong cooperation between the un and the eu is crucial as well as is, as i have said, our cooperation with the countries neighbouring libya and with the league of arab states. we need a unified and effective state authority all over libya and i think that a national unity government is possible and desperately needed for the country and for the sake of the country. the european union is ready, with all its willingness and its support, to help this process. we are doing that already. when we have, and i hope it will be soon, a positive outcome from the dialogue we are ready to give support in all possible ways, in coordination with the un and with the neighbouring countries. this includes through missions and operations that are being explored at present. we started to discuss this with the ministers for foreign affairs in riga a couple of days ago. libya will be one of the main issues on our agenda on monday at the foreign affairs council, to make sure that the european union is ready to support any kind of outcome of the dialogue that is currently taking place. we will also work with the ministers on monday on migration and when talking about libya it is impossible not to mention this issue. it is impossible first of all because the numbers of people crossing the mediterranean through libya – not from libya, not libyans, these are people coming from the horn of africa, from syria, escaping from terrible situations in their own countries – are increasing compared to the same months last year and will probably do so even more when spring and summer come. this is not just an issue of people crossing the mediterranean, it is also an issue that affects greatly the countries neighbouring libya: tunisia, chad, algeria, niger, sudan and egypt continue to receive migrants and asylum seekers from libya. the eu is supporting organisations like the iom which are trying to carry out voluntary repatriation. a few days ago, through one of the eu funded programmes, the iom facilitated the voluntary return of 400 senegalese from libya and these are 400 people that will not try to cross the mediterranean, risking their lives, feeding terrorist networks probably with financial revenues that are, through criminal organisations, most probably also supporting criminal activities. these are most probably 400 people saved. in the same way we are working with the unhcr and according to them there are around 400 000 internally displaced persons in libya. this is almost 10% of the country’s population. they are moving along tribal lines, seeking safety in rural areas and the tendency is to remain in libya, trying to seek refuge in those parts of the country that are not yet touched by the conflict. for these reasons, on 4 march, exactly one week ago, jointly with vice—president timmermans and commissioner avramopoulos inside the commission we have steered the process that will lead to the adoption of a new eu agenda for migration. it was scheduled to come later in the summer, if not later still. i personally asked for this to be advanced to may because we cannot really wait for more months before acting and acting together and efficiently. it will be built on four main objectives – an effective asylum policy, well managed regular migration, the fight against irregular migration and protection of our common external borders. in this framework i have decided, as i told you, to put migration on the agenda of the next foreign affairs council on monday where foreign ministers will have, for the first time, a discussion to complement the ongoing work of the justice and home affairs council that is taking place at the same time. together with commissioner avramopoulos, i have written to the ministers to share some ideas already now on how we could step up our concrete action in the external dimension of our effort on migration in order to avoid tragedies at sea but also at land borders, securing protection for those in need and fighting the criminal networks controlling the trafficking and smuggling. we have also started to exchange views with the unhcr and with high commissioner guterres on the most effective measures and policies to face these challenges together. it has to be a joint effort starting from the very helpful and useful experience that the unhcr has developed over the years. i proposed to the ministers that we discuss along three strands. firstly, enhanced cooperation with third countries of origin and transit on the west african migratory route, the east african one and the so-called silk route in order to build capacities to fight smuggling and trafficking networks and protect stranded migrants in distress. secondly, step up refugee protection both in countries of origin and in neighbouring countries where asylum seekers and refugees have settled, using resettlement and humanitarian admission schemes and regional development and protection programmes in order to assist partner countries to become robust providers of effective protection in accordance with international law, as well as to provide safe alternatives to dangerous journeys. thirdly, to engage with our partners in third countries of origin on the potential of regular, well-managed migration. we should consider better targeted mobility partnerships as an instrument for economic and social development, accompanied by reflection on the role of remittances in development and on the mutual recognition of educational and professional qualifications. because we know very well that when people have regulated and safe ways this works better not only for themselves – we are talking about people first of all, we just finished a debate on human rights, let us remember that – but we are also talking about the development of their countries of origin and also of our own societies in the european union. now these are things we need to do both in the short and in the long term when it comes to external action on our commitment to better management of migration, but we all know – and here i go back to libya, our starting point –we all know that libya is the immediate key element for facing the dramatic situation of people dying at sea and also to face the security and stability challenge we have very close to our borders. we all know, and i can guarantee you that all member states and all commissioners know – here i am playing my dual role – that libya is the number one issue we need to face in these weeks if we want to be sure that the european union can have a stable and secure future and that our region can have a stable and secure future. the impact of this continued situation in libya on not only our sea and our european union but also on neighbouring countries that are struggling themselves with difficult transitions could be really explosive. i am looking forward to listening to your views in this respect. i will be happy to report also to the ministers. let me send from here a strong message in view of what is happening in these days in rabat. all parties need to be fully aware of the fact that all possible support will come from the european union, including on a security level, but we need to have them taking the first step and to unite to save the country.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues who agreed that we should have this very important debate. today, in libya, there are a number of issues that are interconnected. the fact that the different factions have not yet reached an agreement on a unity government and we appreciate any effort to have any kind of dialogue means that there is still a lack of security in the country. the situation is giving rise to terrorist groups, such as the islamic state, to grow in the country. these terrorists can only be defeated if there is a strong and united libya. at the same time it must be what you still say, madam vice president the libyan people themselves who shape their destiny. as the king of jordan argued yesterday, it would be wrong to consider the fight against isis as one between different religions. isis does not represent islam; and this is a fight against extremists who are abusing religion. the situation is evolving rapidly. thousands of people are at risk of displacement and will flee terror and violence in any way possible. migration flows will continue to persist. after gaddafi's fall, the european union, particularly malta and italy, witnessed an influx of thousands. we must be prepared and have the courage to look at all the possibilities that the european union can make use of. this includes considering moving assets to the mediterranean to save lives and increase security or for example looking at how we can utilise the european union's temporary protection directive. and finally i would like to welcome the fact that this issue will soon be discussed in the european council. i want to have this discussion on the priority of our agenda.
we must put an end to the instability that exists in libya because only in this way can we ensure stability in the mediterranean region and in the european union as a whole. we must end this instability also for the millions of innocent people in libya who honestly believed they would have a fresh start three years ago. the current situation is leading to many people trying to cross the mediterranean and if countries facing the problem of immigration continue to be ignored, the mediterranean and europe as a whole will suffer serious repercussions. i am hereby proposing the establishment of a european diplomatic task force to consider any possible solution, any potential situation, while drawing up a plan to address possible scenarios. this task force shall answer to you, vice-president federica mogherini. we must have preventive measures to ensure that the current situation does not worsen, but rather stabilises itself with serious planning and commitment. we must help and encourage a government of national unity in libya. the situation in libya and in the mediterranean cannot be ignored any longer.
member of the commission.– mr president, south sudan has been at war with itself for 15 months. every day that passes increases the risk of more intense conflict and worsens the already dreadful humanitarian and human rights situation of the long-suffering people of south sudan. the recent abduction of a group of children in wau shilluk is yet another illustration of the complete disregard by all parties for international human rights law. the high representative vice-president has condemned them in the strongest possible words. preventing and responding to violations against children affected by armed conflicts is a top priority for the european union. we are working closely with mrs zerrougui, the un special representative for children and armed conflict, and unicef to end the use of children in combat. our delegation in juba is pressing both the government and opposition forces to release all children from the armed forces and to help them return to places of safety. the european commission, through its humanitarian aid and civil protection department echo, provides funding to unicef to support the reintegration of released child soldiers from the cobra faction. accountability for crimes committed in the course of the conflict is essential to ensure sustainable peace. the eu has called repeatedly for the publication of the african union commission of inquiry report. this is an inquiry launched by the african union itself and as such is an historic step to assume responsibility for the investigation of crimes perpetrated on the african continent. we look forward to hearing formally what recommendations the inquiry has to make. we believe that the human disaster wrought in south sudan is the responsibility of its political and military leaders. they resorted to violence rather than debate. there are no alibis. last week, the two principle protagonists in the civil war once again refused to make the mutual compromises required to reach an agreement that could pave the way for a comprehensive settlement of the conflict. in response, igad’s chair, the ethiopian prime minister, asked regional and international partners to work together to reinvigorate the peace process and agree a common approach. the eu stands ready to support igad in this endeavour. the eu special representative alexander rondos has already been active in supporting the igad-led negotiation process. the un security council has also agreed a unanimous resolution creating a framework for sanctions against those who impede the peace process and persons who have committed war crimes. the eu agrees it is important to increase pressure on the parties without further delay. let me conclude by stressing the following: it is essential that the warring parties in south sudan put their own interests aside and instead reach a compromise in the interests of all citizens of south sudan, the world’s youngest nation. the union will continue to make every effort to support a swift political solution to the crisis, with a view to achieving a lasting peace.
in writing.– during the last 15 months of the civil war in south sudan, approximately 1.4 million people have been displaced, 500 000 have fled to neighbouring countries, thousands more have been killed, raped and orphaned. more than four million people are currently at risk of malnutrition and famine. during a recent incident in south sudan, 89 children were forcibly recruited as child soldiers while doing their exams. according to a unicef report, in the past year south sudan recruited more than 12 000 child soldiers, most of them boys and aged between 11 and 17. the recruitment and use of child soldiers under the age of 15 constitutes a war crime. children need to go to school and not to war! regretfully, in times of armed conflict children are the ones that suffer the most. they suffer both physically and emotionally and they need psychological support, so that they can go back to school and have a normal life with their families. therefore, i welcome this resolution, which concludes that recruitment and use of children in armed forces and groups is a crucial violation of national and international law and this has to end.
in writing. ‒ this resolution strongly condemns the killing of boris nemtsov in what is being described as the most significant political assassination in recent russian history. it also pays tribute to him as a prominent opposition leader, a founder and leader of the political movement solidarnost and a leading critic of president vladimir putin and of the war in ukraine, who committed his life to a more democratic, prosperous, open russia and to strong partnerships between russia and its neighbours and partners. the report also condemns the russian leadership’s decision to prevent some eu diplomats and national delegations from attending his funeral. the resolution also points out that his killing is one of a growing number of unresolved politically motivated murders and suspicious deaths perpetrated in russia since 1998, which include those of anna politkovskaya and alexander litvinenko. thats why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that condemns the killing of boris nemtsov and pays tribute to a man who committed his life to fighting for a more democratic, prosperous and open russia.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the murder of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia calls for an independent international investigation into the murder of russian opposition politician boris nemtsov, who was gathering evidence about russian involvement in the war in eastern ukraine and was killed just two days before he was to lead a demonstration against it.
in writing. ‒ an ambitious and effective eu foreign policy needs to be based on a shared vision of key european interest where the eu is a credible actor. priority tasks for eu foreign policy are particularly protecting european values and interests and enforcing the political and legal order in europe, thereby restoring and safeguarding peace and stability, supporting security, democratisation, the rule of law and economic and social development in the eu’s neighbourhood. i welcome the report from the high representative and i am concerned that the eu has so far not been able to use its full potential to shape the international political and security environment. to the objectives of the motion for a resolution we need a higher level in policy coordination and coherence between eu policies.
in writing. ‒ the report is an annual account of the work done by the office of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. federica mogherini took over this role from catherine ashton in 2014. the report states that europe is facing a changed political and security environment, especially in its immediate neighbourhood. however it also portrays the eu as a credible actor with an ambitious and effective eu foreign policy. but most importantly the report speaks about the need to support security and stabilisation in the southern neighbourhood of the eu, the region which is most relevant to malta. it claims that the eu’s instruments and resources should support the building of functioning and inclusive states capable of delivering security for their citizens, promoting democracy and confronting religious extremism. it also points to the unused potential of cross-border trade within the region. finally, it insists on close cooperation with the authorities of the countries concerned on managing migration flows while respecting human rights. as this report acknowledges the changed reality, especially in the mediterranean area, and pushes for more attention to the needs of the region, therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the necessity for a coherent eu migration policy and the need to address the root causes of irregular migration. the report also focuses on the fact that migration management should become a key part and priority of eu external action and its cooperation with neighbours to prevent more loss of life at the eu’s borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report from the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament, that takes stock of the most important developments in the realm of the cfsp over the last year, in terms of the institutional set-up of the cfsp, horizontal issues such as human rights, non-proliferation and the spread of eu values and geographical issues concerning the main areas of the cfsp: enlargement, transatlantic relations, and relations with russia, the eu neighbourhood, the middle east and asia.
in writing. ‒ i wish to explain that my vote in favour of this report is conditioned by the following observation: the bedrock of the eu’s profile in international affairs has been the soft power that the eu has developed over the years, making its institutions and mode of operations attractive as seen from outside. this soft power has at times become hegemonic in its effects without really having the diplomatic and material means by which to deliver on expectations and positions, except economically; indeed, the internal rules written and unwritten on which the eu operates rightly inhibit such a development. however in the intentional and unintentional exercise of its soft power, the eu is also at times contributing to geopolitical instability in its neighbourhoods where it is generating centrifugal forces, or giving rise to widespread expectations which it can neither satisfy nor betray. there seems to be little sign that in its initiatives, the office of the high representative has been able to clarify or resolve these dilemmas which are becoming more complex and problematic with time.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses different issues on human rights often focusing on those areas in which more eu action is needed but i would like to see a stronger eu framework to carrying out such action. a framework with focused effective actions assisting third countries in the process of democratisation with the actions not only being named as priorities but also having actual and measurable targets. in doing so the eu must be seen to be consistent in upholding these principles and therefore coherence between the internal and external human right policies needs to be enhanced. with relation to a specific issue, suppression of the media and of expression creates oppression and serves only those who seize power at the expense of the best interest of their people and their country thereby leading to instability and humanitarian crises leading also to migration towards and tragedies on eu territories. focused effective action in this respect with third countries is a must. the report calls for legal abortion, an issue that falls outside eu competence and consequently voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against all references to abortion but in favour of the whole report because the report enters into serious issues of human rights. i believe that we need to fight sexual abuse, we need to address internal human rights challenges effectively, including discrimination against lgbti people, media freedom and the rights of minorities; we need to take an unequivocal position against capital punishment, torture and abuse around the world and a strong position against the elimination of violence against women and girls, against the sexual abuse of young girls, early and forced marriage or child marriage. the report speaks also about lgbti rights, rights of persons with disabilities, children’s rights and eu action on migration and refugees.
in writing. ‒ despite voting for the amendments in support of lgbti rights, i could not support the final version of report, which regrettably includes unacceptable references to abortion.
in writing. ‒ this year, the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 is particularly important as it coincides with the conclusion of the human rights cycle initiated in 2012 by the eeas. i fully support most of the references in the report in relation to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender/transsexual and intersex (lgbti) rights, eu action against the death penalty, eu action against torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, eu action to ensure freedom of expression rights online and offline and to limit the impact of surveillance technologies on human rights, rights of persons with disabilities and children’s rights, among others, including eu action on immigration. nevertheless, i have never supported any references to sexual and reproductive health, rights, services and abortion and therefore i voted against those parts in paragraphs 135, 136 and 164, which impinge into competences of the member states to decide on their health policies
in writing. ‒ having regard to my positive vote on the report on the ‘annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 and the eu policy on the matter’, i would like to clarify that such vote excludes approval for those clauses which signify acceptance of abortion, and on which i abstained when roll—call votes were called.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s external policies must contribute to countering the terrorist threat, which is escalating in certain parts of its neighbourhood, in particular syria and libya. we need to consider actions for enhancing cooperation with key partners and countries on countering the financing of terrorism. the eu needs to engage with partner countries in a dialogue on the issue and to improve strategic communication, developing an outreach strategy to the arab world and promoting fundamental rights. the motion for resolution stresses these objectives and calls for effective actions, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states (las) in countering terrorism. the resolution of the european parliament starts from a clear point on transparency: by asking for the memorandum of understanding signed recently between the european external action service and the general secretariat of the las to be published so that its content can be subject to democratic and judicial oversight. it continues to delve into the subject matter by pushing for exchange of information between the two sides in crisis situations, the sharing of assessments and best practices, as well as of cooperating in identifying practical steps to help address the threats, including more effective action to counteract radicalisation, recruitment and travel of terrorists and foreign fighters, as well as dealing with fighters returning to their place of departure. moreover, apart from the angle on security the resolution also reaffirms the need to maintain a balance between freedom and security in response to terrorist threats and to consider all measures to be taken from the point of view of the compatibility of these measures with the rule of law and the requirements of fundamental rights. hence, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution stresses the need to have a holistic and comprehensive approach to tackling radicalisation and terrorism. it is essential that the eu focus its attention on the underlying factors of radicalisation and utilise a comprehensive cross-sectoral and multidisciplinary approach guaranteeing the involvement of all the policies concerned. it also urges the eu to implement comprehensive anti-terrorism measures which combine diplomatic, socio-economic, development, conflict prevention, peacebuilding and crisis management tools. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the parliament resolution on the relations between the eu and the league of arab states and cooperation in countering terrorism. terrorism poses a direct threat to all countries and all people and it is therefore so important to tackle terrorism threats in the roots. this can only be done by a global alliance, in full compliance with international law, fundamental values and international human rights standards.
in writing. ‒ sea bass is very much in demand by the fishing industry for its significant economic value. various studies show that the stock status of sea bass is worrying. the resolution calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for sea bass in order to bring the stock to a level above the maximum sustainable yield. in the light of the necessity of dealing with the state of sea bass stocks, the motion for a resolution also calls for the consideration of the introduction of total allowable catch (tac) measures. such measures are being proposed in the best interests of fishermen who, in the long term, unless measures are taken, may experience drastic effects due to a considerable decline in the species. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the fact that scientific information on the stock status of sea bass is insufficient. therefore, it calls on the commission and the member states to evaluate the status of the stock of sea bass and its delimitation, migration of the species and the exact places of reproduction. it also stresses the importance of evaluating in a precise manner the segment of various sea bass fishing activities and the segment of the percentage of recreational fishing in catches. it also states that measures to manage the operation of the sea bass fishery at european level are needed in order to safeguard this species. furthermore, it calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan on sea bass in order to bring the stock to a level above the maximum sustainable yield, stressing that this should be done with the involvement of professional and recreational fishermen. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the fact that measures for commercial and recreational fisheries should be coherent with each other to maintain the stock above the maximum sustainable yield, which is in accordance with the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft motion for resolution on sustainable exploitation of sea bass.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu’s priorities for the 28th regular session of the united nations human rights council and i fully support the unhrc special rapporteur’s latest report and conclusions on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and discrimination against migrants, including asylum seekers and refugees. i am also concerned about other eu human-rights priorities in country-related issues, and i call for the eu and the member states to implement the special rapporteur’s recommendations in their internal policies for combating the violation of human rights worldwide. the motion for a resolution calls for legal abortion, an issue that falls outside eu competence, and consequently i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, parliament acknowledges the united nations human rights council (unhrc) for its work, and sees the confirmed participation of commission vice-president mogherini at the 28th session of the unhrc as a positive sign of european engagement, while stressing the importance of presenting the eu position with one voice. more importantly, the resolution considers that the continued harassment and detention of human rights defenders and opposition figures by a number of unhrc member countries undermines the credibility of the unhrc. it reiterates parliament’s position that unhrc members should be elected from among states which uphold respect for human rights, and it urges the eu member states to promote and adopt human rights performance criteria, which should apply to any state to be elected as a member of the unhrc. i voted in favour of this resolution, as i agree with a more unified representation of the eu, and i fully back parliament’s call for electing unhrc members from countries with a proven track record of protecting human rights and individual freedoms.
in writing. ‒ it is unfortunate that an otherwise balanced joint motion for a resolution included unacceptable references to sexual health and reproductive rights which may be interpreted as a right to abortion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution highlighting horizontal issues such as civil, political, social and economic rights, women’s and children’s rights as well as eu priorities on country-related issues on the agenda of the part-session, inter alia ukraine, syria, libya, iraq , bangladesh,myanmar/burma, belarus, bahrain, egypt, mali, south sudan and sri lanka.
in writing. ‒ respect for freedom of the press, information and opinion and political pluralism are fundamental to democracy, and i deplore the existence of media and web censorship in venezuela and the fact that access to some blogs and social networks is limited. i agree with the objectives of the motion for a resolution. only full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, constructive and respectful dialogue and tolerance can help venezuela find a way out of this serious crisis and thus overcome future difficulties.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the political and social turmoil in venezuela following the escalation of tensions between the government and the opposition parties, especially over the detention of mayor antonio ledezma in a military prison and the death of a 14-year-old schoolboy during protests last month. the lack of judicial independence, the intimidation and detention of leading opposition figures and the violent repression of demonstrators are contributing to venezuela’s growing international isolation since the protests of february 2014. venezuela is becoming a focus for instability in south america, and its people are tired of social and political unrest, as well as the severe economic crisis. the european union’s assistance in settling the conflict and its support for regional efforts to this end are of the utmost importance. the resolution calls on the venezuelan government to release all political protesters and opposition leaders detained in military prisons, and to create the conditions for the country to hold parliamentary elections in 2015. hence i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it strongly condemns the escalation of violence in venezuela.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the resolution saying that the venezuelan authorities must immediately release all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and fundamental rights. the government must also put an end to the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition, it added.
in writing.– we have witnessed big public relations and political exercises to project the unacceptable activities of ‘tax havens’ in europe and elsewhere. beyond obvious excesses in tax adjudication, which cannot be justified (no matter who does them and how), these exercises have actually targeted the financial services sectors of a number of eu member states. most of them, with the exception of the uk, are among the european minnows. suddenly it seems as if countries which specialise in the provision of financial services should be considered a threat to the integrity of the eu. a recalibration of this approach is needed. the fact is that financial services remain necessary in a globalising world which has accepted neoliberal rules when ensuring that financial flows across nations and continents are managed efficiently. that financial services migrate towards given countries and not others reflects an international division of labour without which some countries would be perpetually in growth mode, others in perpetual stagnation. increasingly, it is taken for granted that there must be something shady in policies which encourage the provision of financial services. to claim that such provision implies the encouragement of tax avoidance, or indeed evasion, is manifestly false.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, socially responsible road transport services which are at the same time safe and efficient are the key pillar in the creation of a fairer and deeper internal transport market, a market shaped by people, for people and – that was my promise – one which respects workers’ rights and contributes to developing society and the economy in the eu. each and every symptom of social unfairness and unfair competition must be combatted. however, prevention is the best means of redress. let me stress that the commission welcomes the introduction of minimum wages at national level. they are fully in line with the social policy commitment of this commission. however, it goes without saying that national measures on a minimum wage applicable to the transport sector must be applied in a manner which is fully compatible with eu law, notably the treaty principles on free movement of goods and freedom to provide services. this implies, inter alia, that the measures should be non-discriminatory, and that any restriction of such freedom should be justified having regard to the principle of proportionality. the commission understands that the first questions to be raised in that respect concern the recently introduced scheme operated by germany. the commission is assessing thoroughly the german rules on minimum wages and their impact on the transport sector and on the proper functioning of the internal market, taking into account in particular the information provided recently by the german authorities’ response to the commission’s inquiry. therefore, i am not yet in a position at this stage of the procedure to provide precise answers to parliament’s questions. the legal assessment is complex, as it involves basic eu treaty principles, in particular in relation to the freedom just mentioned, but also several pieces of legislation, notably the posting of workers directive. in addition, the measures also need to be analysed in the context of regulations which liberalise the road transport market, regulation nos 1072/2009 and 2073/2009. the commission will decide on further steps based on the results of this comprehensive assessment, and will inform parliament of its position as soon as possible. mr president, honourable members, let me turn to the third question and share with you the commission’s vision for improving social and working conditions in transport, in particular road transport. the commission is fully committed to promoting fair social standards and fair working and business conditions. these three elements are crucial to creating a sound framework for more and better jobs in the sector. it is also of the utmost importance that the current legislation at both eu and national level is fully and equally understood and applied across the eu. this concerns all stakeholders including member states, shippers, drivers, freight forwarders and other operators active in transport. with a view to completing the existing framework in line, notably, with the aspects just mentioned, the commission is currently considering new measures which could be presented in a ‘road package’ in 2016.
on behalf of the ppe group. the issue before us is one that occupies the european sphere from time to time. a situation in which two parties are involved and have valid arguments within the european dialogue. the points raised by all those who are against these conditions concern mainly the free movement of services and goods, a cardinal point of the free market. it can be argued that insisting on a driver being paid according to his geographical location could lead to a reduction in competitiveness and go against these freedoms. on the other hand, the position taken by some of the member countries cites the principle of subsidiarity as a main argument. social security remained the prerogative of each member state, especially in cases concerning the national minimum wage. another point is that different wages in the transport of goods within a state can, due to competitive pressure, lead to non-compliance with the rules and can affect road safety. ladies and gentlemen, the rights of workers are of vital importance to this parliament, but so is the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore ask the commission to consider these two points carefully. while i thank the commission for the contribution it has made so far, i assure you that we will find the best possible solution for the benefit of all the parties concerned.
in writing.– the roma people are europe’s largest ethnic minority. of an estimated 10-12 million in the whole of europe, some six million live in the eu, most of them eu citizens. despite the fact that eu countries have banned discrimination against roma people, many roma in the eu are victims of prejudice and social exclusion involving housing, education, access to healthcare and employment. education is a key element for equality, social inclusion and integration. every child has a right to equal opportunities for education. however, as many as 50% of roma children in europe fail to complete primary education. the eu must ensure the right to basic education for roma children, with particular emphasis on improving access to early childhood educational opportunities and transition to quality primary education. it is our responsibility to promote integration and tackle the social exclusion of roma people. we cannot forget that almost 3 000 roma men, women, and children were murdered in the gas chambers on the night of 2-3 august 1944, when the germans liquidated the zigeunerlager at auschwitz-birkenau. therefore, it is essential to recognise the roma genocide and establish a european memorial day to commemorate its victims.
in writing. ‒ 928 personnel from 16 enterprises working in the programming and broadcasting sector have been made redundant. such redundancies are linked to the global financial and economic crisis. the european globalisation fund measures recommended will seek the reintegration of redundant workers into employment through occupational guidance, training, retraining and job search. i have thus voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this application refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 046 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece. it concerns 928 redundancies in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014. the events giving rise to the redundancies at attica broadcasting, according to the greek authorities, were mainly two: (1) the decrease of available household income ― due to the increase in the tax burden, decreasing salaries and rising unemployment ― resulting in the need to prioritise spending while limiting significantly the cost of everyday information; and (2) the drastic reduction of loans to enterprises and individuals due to the lack of cash in the greek banks. as this action will provide a second chance to workers who have been unfairly affected by changes beyond their control, i voted in favour of the application.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools in the eu’s arsenal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 928 workers in the broadcasting sector in greece due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the report states that 705 workers from 46 enterprises working in the publishing sector have been made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. redundant workers will participate in the co-founded personalised services which will include support for start-ups, occupational guidance, training measures, including vocational training and training allowances, as well as a job search and mobility allowance. i have thus voted in favour of this report, which seeks to redress the situation by increasing the employability of workers to reintegrate them into the workforce.
in writing. ‒ this application concerns 705 redundancies from greek company attica publishing in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014. the events giving rise to the redundancies, according to the greek authorities, were mainly two: (1) the decrease of available household income ― due to the increase in the tax burden, decreasing salaries and rising unemployment ― resulting in the need to prioritise spending while limiting significantly the cost of everyday information; and (2) the drastic reduction of loans to enterprises and individuals due to the lack of cash in the greek banks. as this action will provide a second chance to workers who have been unfairly affected by changes beyond their control, i voted in favour of the application.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools in the eu’s arsenal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 705 workers in the publishing sector in greece due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. in the case in question the charges are manifestly unrelated to the position of the member as a member of the european parliament and arise from his former position as president of the portuguese bar association. the alleged actions do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies of 424 workers working in the ‘repair and installation of machinery and equipment’ sector are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. personalised services for the redundant workers to be co-funded by egf measures include guidance and career planning, training and provision of further educational programmes, due to the very specific skills of the workers, along with enterprise and self-employment support. i have therefore voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this application refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 490 758 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for ireland. it concerns 149 redundancies in the reference period from 1 march 2014 to 30 june 2014. according to the irish authorities, the measures initiated on 7 december 2013 combine to form a coordinated package of personalised services and represent active labour market measures with the aim of reintegrating the workers into the labour market. as this action will provide a second chance to workers who have been affected directly by market changes due to globalisation, i voted in favour of the application.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools in the eu’s arsenal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise the egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 250 workers and 200 young people in ireland due to a shift towards a new generation of aircraft and components.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the fact that a decision on the same matter has already been taken and a further decision on it has become necessary only because of the re-election of the member to the european parliament, and on the basis of the foregoing and of the available documents, it was concluded that there are no grounds for refusing to waive the parliamentary immunity of the member again. i thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the determining criterion for the enjoyment of immunity under article 8 of protocol no 7 is evidence of a direct and obvious link between the opinions in question and the performance of parliamentary duties. no evidence of such a link has been provided in the case in point. i have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the economy in ukraine is experiencing a deep crisis which is being aggravated by the armed conflict in the eastern part of the country. the macro-financial assistance (mfa) proposed by the commission is an exceptional eu crisis-response mechanism available to the eu’s partner countries experiencing acute balance of payment problems. the mfa will contribute to the eu objectives of promoting economic stability and development in ukraine. i have thus voted in favour to reaffirm the long-standing commitment of the european parliament as well as of the european union to the reform process of ukraine.
in writing. ‒ the ukrainian economy is experiencing an acute crisis, rooted in long-standing structural problems and aggravated by the conflict with russia and the loss of the crimea region. ukraine’s reform efforts have been complicated by the continued armed conflict, trade restrictions from russia and the escalation of a natural gas dispute between the two countries. as a result, economic recession and capital flight have been more severe than expected, resulting in a sharp depreciation of the currency and a depletion of international reserves. while calling for the relevant eu authorities to monitor ukraine’s economic performance and budget, i cannot but support this aid to ukraine, so i voted in favour of granting the assistance subject to ukraine respecting effective democratic mechanisms and the rule of law and guaranteeing respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ macro-financial assistance for eu partner countries is one of the crisis-response mechanisms that may be used in exceptional circumstances. the proposed amount of eur 1.8 billion will act as a catalyst to reignite the reform effort in the country as well as improve the overall stability in ukraine. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as parliament and the union have made a long-standing commitment to the reform process in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ whereas i support the fight against tax evasion and fraud, i have voted against this report as tax issues are and should remain a member state (ms) competence. furthermore the report assumes that tax harmonisation, financial transaction tax and cccbt are a must, without considering that ms economies face different challenges and realities.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, whilst it underlines the importance and necessity of fighting tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning and tax havens, i believe that it is imperative that taxation remains a member state competence. i am in favour of respect for member states’ competences as safeguarded by the treaties. moreover, one has to understand the realities of peripheral or disadvantaged regions which require tax competition to survive. what is important is to make such competition, transparent.
in writing. ‒ it is unfortunate that this report made certain references to having a financial transaction tax (ftt), which i could not support. such taxation issues should remain within member states’ competence.
in writing. ‒ my vote is conditioned by the following reservation: in a single market, especially one with a single currency, it is to be expected that there will be demands for a level playing field across all business-related matters, including taxation, so that competition will occur under conditions that are fair and transparent. however, operational conditions for enterprises across the monetary area are not the same, because in the real world things shape up differently. physical endowments are an obvious example of this. when the monetary zone operates as a federal system, or a so-called transfer union, mechanisms exist to ensure that those who are less well endowed with competitive attributes receive compensation for their handicaps. this is done by financial or other transfers, automatic or politically directed. none of this is possible in the euro zone. so calls for the harmonisation of tax structures, or even for ‘fairness’ in so-called tax competition, could inhibit even further the competitiveness of areas which find themselves at a disadvantage compared with better endowed areas within the monetary zone. in the absence of a well-organised transfer union, tax competition will remain a tool by which peripheral or disadvantaged regions can survive. the challenge is to make such competition transparent.
mr president, we proclaim that more new investment is a paramount requirement if european economic recovery is to be sustained. so it is strange to find that so many billions of investment allocations under the eu’s own budget have again remained unspent from last year to this. we are looking at over eur 21 billion from the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the agricultural fund and the migration fund. the truth is that if these funds had been managed under provisions that were devolved fully to national governments their absorption rate would have been much higher. the eu is not a federal system, but the procedures it follows in funding projects are more onerous than those followed in the us. methods defining the management of co-funded projects are too frequently delaying project implementation. too often they are applied on a one-size-fits-all basis. of course this problem has been with the european union since its inception, but one would have hoped that by now – especially following the recent years of economic crisis – efficient solutions to the challenge of spending allocated monies in time would have been discovered. the opposite seems to have happened. for instance, the impression is that state aid rules are being applied too stringently to project proposals. projects delayed or reformatted mean more costs and less economic impact. here too, the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
the integration of people with special needs into the world of work represents one of the greatest challenges in the political, social and labour spheres. in this context, while appreciating the efforts made by member states in this area, it is important to make an additional effort to ensure that persons with special needs have full access to a job. it is therefore important that the acquis in question such as 2000/78 establishing a framework for equal treatment in employment is followed up correctly. persons with special needs urgently need effective measures that give them the opportunity and the right to integrate themselves into the labour market according to their abilities and potential. the european commission should therefore guarantee equal treatment in employment and access for persons with disabilities within the european commission and the institutions of the european union. governments should not only ensure that they remove all barriers and encourage non-discriminatory measures in the world of work but should also offer incentives to employers that are advantageous once they employ people with special needs. ideally, governments should provide a framework of coordinated sanctions, incentives and support that complement each other, and in addition, it should be ensured that eu legislation on disabled people is implemented and controlled in the member states.
in writing.– although many people with disabilities are employed, disability still remains a significant risk factor for participation in the labour market. however, major differences still exist between disabled people and non-disabled people and barriers to the labour market are not easily removed. there is a very significant association between educational achievement and success in employment. therefore, it is extremely important to focus on how to bridge the gap between school age and the labour market for people with disabilities, including attention to education, the employment needs of young people with disabilities and the essential role of lifelong learning. people with disabilities are employed within a broad range and types of jobs but with a large proportion employed in low-skilled jobs. therefore, it is important to support and encourage people with disabilities to apply for jobs in the european institutions and make sure that they understand that a career in the european institutions is a good career for them. disabled people should enjoy the same rights and opportunities as non-disabled people.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by saying that the commission is the guardian of the treaties, of fundamental principles and of fundamental rights, and that all its efforts are based on what i have just said and on respect for the law, pending, of course, the opinion of the european court of justice to go further. speaking in english again, i would first of all once again like to express my thanks for this exchange of views. for me it was very useful and i am grateful to all those who took the floor. in view of the remarks you have made and the questions you have asked, i would like to make it clear once again that the concerns and the role of parliament are respected. the negotiations on a pnr agreement with mexico cannot be finalised before the court of justice has issued its opinion on the draft pnr agreement with canada. i would also like to comment on what ms in t'veld said. as i explained, provided that we formally start negotiations with mexico, they will suspend the fines. it was very clear on their side. my intention is to launch them myself at the end of june. there is goodwill from the mexican authorities and mutual commitment to reach a legally sound agreement. since i was the one who negotiated with the mexican authorities, i can tell you and i can assure you that i did not feel that i was being blackmailed. on the contrary, i found interlocutors of good faith. mrs hohlmeier also made a point which i would like to make reference to. as you know, i discussed my strategy with the ministers of the interior in the justice and home affairs council and the ministers who spoke welcomed this approach. i am receiving positive signals from member states in all my contacts. as i said at the beginning, this is a firm choice to work towards a european solution, a european approach which guarantees more effectively both the security and the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. we are already working towards a consistent approach, ms in t' veld, for all future pnr requests. we will discuss this in the framework of the eu agenda on security. finally, it is important to engage with our partners on security issues, and mexico is one of them. i listened to your comments about mexico. let me tell you that, as i said at the beginning, the mexican authorities are determined to work very closely with us and they have given the necessary assurances on the protection of all this data. anyway, we shall come back very soon and i look forward to an official discussion on the matter. mr weidenholzer also made a remark which i would like to comment on. it is true that i come to the european parliament very often - not just because of the nature of my dossier, and the fact that i really need to discuss matters with you, but also because deep down inside i have never stopped feeling a parliamentarian myself.
mr president, state aid procedures employed by the commission to vet commercial and economic decisions need to be reappraised drastically. it is increasingly failing to recognise that the single market is a fractured one. peripheral regions with limited endowments have been subjected to competition from areas where vastly superior resources prevail. traditional small-scale occupations run by micro-enterprises are not allowed protective breathing space. there is a refusal to recognise that state entrepreneurship can be a valid tool in peripheral regions by which to promote new economic activity or to sustain old and dying activities. all this is unfair and is mistaken. some economic activities of peripheral regions – islands, coastal and mountain areas – need state subsidies if we want them to survive. relatively marginal activities in peripheral economies, which account for a minimum percentage of overall turnover in the european single market, should be exempted from state aid criteria when investment and commercial measures are being taken in their favour. but decisions are increasingly relying on one-size-fits-all methods. in a europe which should stand for the welfare of all citizens there should be no place for state aid rules that seek fairness for big enterprises and deny support to small and traditional concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in mory-ducros, which operates in the road haulage sector. the redundancies concern 84 sites in mainland france. the bankruptcy and closure of this company is seen as being the result of the global financial and economic crisis, causing road haulage in vehicles weighing more than 3.5 tonnes to decline in the eu and in france between 2007 and 2012. this decline follows the general decline of physical output in europe. i am happy to note that a personalised service consisting of advice and guidance provided by a team of expert consultants will be provided to the redundant workers. this will constitute active labour market measures within the eligible actions set out in article 7 of the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ here 2 804 personnel working in the ʽland transport and transport via pipelinesʼ sector have been made redundant. such redundancies are linked to events directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis. now 2 513 redundant workers will receive advice and guidance from a team of expert consultants. i have thus voted in favour of this report to support workersʼ integration back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies in mory-ducros were the result of the bankruptcy and closure of the company. according to the bank of france, bankruptcies in the road haulage sector, have increased by 35 % annually when comparing 2013 to 2007. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. through this action workers made redundant will receive advice and guidance from a team of experts. i believe in the value of solidarity and giving workers a chance to start over again and hence i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the eu’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise egf to support the local economy. i voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 2 513 workers in the road-haulage sector in france due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in france. the egaf funding of eur 6 052 200 is to contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 2 513 of redundant workers into employment. the redundancies are linked to the decline in physical output in europe, which leads to a reduction in volumes to be transported and triggered a price war in the road haulage sector, resulting in a steady deterioration in operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france since 2007
in writing. ‒ i have followed and participated actively throughout the debate on this matter. i believe that this committee has been very effective and served its advisory role very well. i have voted in favour of this report as i particularly agree with the fact that the committee will give special attention to the social dimension of the european monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee to monitor social conditions in the eu and the development of social protection policies in member states and to promote discussion and coordination of policy approaches among national governments and the commission.
in writing. – i agree with the council decision to establish the employment committee. i believe this will help member states and the european union to develop a coordinated strategy for employment and particularly for promoting a skilled and trained workforce and a labour market which is responsive to economic change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the proposal to establish the social protection committee as social protection of the european union’s citizens is one of our major priorities, especially in times of financial crisis. the creation of this committee will facilitate the sharing of best practices through a direct link between the competent authorities in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which calls for support regarding the changes in council decision 2004/689/ec of 4 october 2004 establishing a social protection committee. articles 150 and 160 tfeu provide that the parliament shall be consulted when establishing this committee. the consultation is of a technical nature and concerns in particular the possible extension of the chair’s term of office. the draft council decision provides that the chairperson shall be elected for a term of two years, which shall be renewable once.
in writing. ‒ i have followed and participated actively throughout the debate on this matter. i believe that this committee has been very effective and served its advisory role very well. i have voted in favour of this report particularly as i agree that in the case of the employment committee, the european semester is now being given priority and the committee will ensure efficiency and continuity in between each of the european semester cycles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the draft council decision establishing the employment committee which monitors the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and the european union as well as formulating opinions at the request of either the council or the commission or on its own initiative.
in writing. – i agree with the council decision to establish the employment committee. i believe this will help member states and the european union to develop a coordinated strategy for employment and particularly for promoting a skilled and trained workforce and a labour market which is responsive to economic change.
in writing. ‒ the newly established employment committee will serve as a tool to monitor the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and the european union as a whole. it will be comprised of highly qualified senior officials or experts in the field of employment and the labour market. i voted in favour of this proposal as it is crucial that the european union maintains its path to economic recovery and higher levels of employment, especially amongst young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for support regarding changes of council decision 2000/98/ec of 24 january 2000 establishing the employment committee. articles 150 and 160 tfeu provide that the parliament shall be consulted when establishing this committee. the consultation is of a technical nature and concerns in particular the possible extension of the chair’s term of office. the draft council decision provides that the chairperson shall be elected for a term of two years, which shall be renewable once.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for parliament to give its consent to the proposal for a council regulation revising the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020, as this proposal did not include any changes in payment appropriations. the proposal was necessary due to the late adoption of the cohesion policy (as part of the european structural and investment funds) regulations for this period, which resulted in only a handful of operational programmes being adopted by the end of 2014. the european structural and investment funds are the union’s most important investment policy. it is therefore important that any negative impact for regions and cities and consequently for european citizens is avoided and that all resources are used in a timely and effective manner in order to generate growth and jobs. i particularly welcome the statement by the commission on the need for the commission to cooperate with member states and regions to swiftly adopt all remaining programmes and to carefully implement these programmes, with the aim of achieving full and effective use of all resources.
in writing. ‒ the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 led to the impossibility of a timely adoption of all operational programmes, which as a consequence were not advanced enough to benefit from the special carry-over procedure. a revision of the multiannual financial framework regulation was thus proposed to transfer unused commitment appropriations from 2014 to subsequent years. apart from the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund, these operational programmes include the european structural and investment funds that are the european unionʼs most important investment policy. it is essential that all resources are used in as timely a manner and as effectively as possible, to generate growth and jobs. i have thus voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the eu’s seven year financial programme through which eu funds are distributed to the 28 member states. this report suggests carrying-over eu funding for late-starter national programmes to 2015. the proposed changes to ceilings within the eu’s 2014-2017 framework would allow eur 21.1 billion in unused commitment appropriations to be carried over from 2014 to 2015-2017. to me it is quite clear that we should do all that is possible to secure the full use of available funds towards bettering the lives of our citizens, hence i voted in favour of the flexibility required to achieve it in this particular circumstance.
in writing. ‒ the delayed adoption of the 2014-2020 legal acts for a number of funds meant that a significant number of programmes could not be adopted in 2014. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal as it will lead to the appropriation of these unused funds from 2014 to subsequent years.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020. since a significant amount of programmes could not be adopted in 2014, commitment appropriations for programmes under shared management lapsed in 2014 for an amount of eur 21 billion. this corresponds to the 2014 tranches of programmes that could neither be committed in 2014 nor carried over to 2015. the commission proposes to transfer this bulk of the allocations that were not used in 2014, to 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree with keeping alive the memories of the past; there can be no reconciliation without truth and remembrance. it is important to pay tribute to the memory of the innocent victims of the armenian genocide and all genocides and crimes committed against humanity. it is heartening to read the statements by the president of turkey erdoğan and the prime minister of turkey davutoğlu offering condolences and recognising atrocities against the ottoman armenians. these are a step in the right direction. i do hope that additional efforts are made by both sides to normalise their relations by ratifying and implementing, without preconditions, the protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations.
in writing. – 2015 marks the centennial of the armenian genocide. there can be no reconciliation without truth and remembrance. this resolution pays tribute to the memory of the one-and-a-half million innocent armenian victims who perished in the ottoman empire and to the memory of the innocent victims of all genocides and crimes committed against humanity. the resolution also invites armenia and turkey to use examples of successful reconciliation between european nations and to focus on an agenda that puts cooperation between peoples first. i have thus voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – the resolution pays tribute to the memory of the 1.5 million armenian victims who perished in the times of the ottoman empire 100 years ago. it also confirms parliament’s view that what happened in 1915-1917 represents a genocide as defined by international law. as this resolution clearly holds that what happened 100 years ago was a horrendous genocide, while opening up space for further positive dialogue between the two sides, i voted in favour.
in writing. – this cross-party joint resolution should be commended as it encourages further reconciliation between turkey and armenia and also pays tribute to the memory of the victims of all genocides and crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution, which commemorates the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide perpetrated by the ottoman authorities in 1915, which put an end to the existence of the armenian community living historically in the south-east part of the ottoman empire (today’s turkey). the resolution criticises the new, republican turkey, established after the defeat of the ottoman empire in the wwi, for the denial of this historical fact. it also recognises the steps taken by the current turkish government in improving the treatment of the remaining armenian minority, in the context of a freer debate on the country’s past. the resolution calls on both turkey and armenia to normalise bilateral relations without preconditions, and promote people-to-people, academic, cultural and educational exchanges in order to foster better mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ whilst roma have been historically part of society in many european countries, and they are part of europe’s culture and values, a special kind of racism is directed towards them, anti-gypsyism. this is one of the main causes of the discrimination and marginalisation that the roma people have suffered historically in many european states. the genocide of roma by the nazi and other regimes and their allies during world war ii is still largely ignored and not acknowledged by the public. i believe that this recognition will provide an important symbolic step in the fight against anti-gypsyism and contribute to the general knowledge of roma history in europe. in fact, i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree that these elements should be highlighted on the occasion of the international roma day and the need to condemn all forms of racism and discrimination faced by the roma.
in writing. – this resolution expresses its deep concern at the rise of anti-gypsyism, condemns all forms of racism and discrimination faced by the roma, calls for the promotion of equal rights for roma children, stresses the need to ensure that specific measures for women’s rights and gender mainstreaming are included in the national roma integration strategies (nris), calls for the recognition of the genocide of roma that took place during world war ii and calls for a european day dedicated to commemorating the victims. i have thus voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. – this resolution requests further efforts to put an end to discrimination, hate crime and hate speech against roma people and call on the eu to recoginse 2 august as the roma genocide remembrance day. i believe that all citizens should abide by the rules set by the society they live in and contribute to their communities. by voting in favour of this resolution i wanted to pass on a clear message against discrimination and that the wrongs of the past that the roma people had to endure should never happen again.
in writing. – i support this cross-party joint resolution as it calls on member states to combat the rising anti-roma sentiment in europe, and also urges member states to recognise the genocide committed against the roma community during world war ii.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which calls for recognition of the day on which the genocide of roma took place during the second world war, in order to give the genocide of roma its rightful place in history, and for the establishment of a european roma holocaust memorial day
thank you, chair, and thank you, commissioner. in fact, the european commission's 2011 white paper on transport indicates that co2 emissions from the maritime sector should decrease by at least 40% by 2050 compared to 2005 levels. in reality, however, despite the entry into force of minimum energy efficiency standards for certain categories of ships and despite new technology, emissions from the maritime sector are expected to continue to increase, due to an increase in demand for maritime transport caused by an increase in world trade. the increase in emissions from the maritime sector, however, goes completely against the european union's climate targets. the mrv system on co2 emissions is therefore only the first step towards establishing a global system for monitoring, reporting and verifying emissions from the international maritime sector. this sector can contribute to emission reductions if there are strong regulatory measures, together with new and existing technology, which together can help to reduce emissions. from a climate change perspective this is certainly a positive consideration to bear in mind. it is a fact that all sectors have to contribute and when you consider the international nature of maritime transport, then it is clear that the most effective method to reduce greenhouse emissions in this sector is a global agreement within the international maritime organization, so it is interesting to know what the imo will do.
in writing. ‒ the object of the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel (stcw-f convention) is to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job in order to minimise, where possible, the potential threats to safety of life and/or property at sea or to the marine environment. the decision under consideration is intended to enable member states to ratify the stcw-f convention without encroaching on the eu’s exclusive competence regarding the recognition of regulated professions pursed by eu nationals on board fishing vessels. following parliamentʼs discussion on this topic i voted in favour to give my consent to the text of the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel (stcw-f convention) ensures that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential threats to safety of life and/or property at sea or to the marine environment can, wherever possible, be minimised when operations are being carried out on seagoing vessels. i voted in favour of this report to enable member states to ratify the stcw-f convention without encroaching on the eu’s exclusive competence regarding the recognition of regulated professions pursed by eu nationals on board fishing vessels. this decision should therefore encourage member states to take all necessary steps without delay to ratify the stcw-f convention in the best interests of the personnel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to enable member states to ratify the imo’s international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel without affecting the eu’s exclusive competence. the object of the convention is to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential threats to safety of life and/or property at sea or to the marine environment can be minimised.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which authorises member states to become signatories to the international convention on fishing vessel personnel of the international maritime organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii – commission. it proposes an increase of eur 16 476.4 million in commitment appropriations in 2015 for the various funds under shared management under subheading 1b, heading 2 and heading 3. it also proposes an increase of eur 2.5 million for the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) under heading 4, to preserve similar treatment between contributions from heading 4 and heading 1b to the european regional development fund (erdf) european territorial cooperation (etc) programmes.
in writing. ‒ it is in the best interests of eu citizens for unused appropriations for the year 2014 to be transferred to subsequent years in order to contribute to the creation of jobs and growth. i thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the fact that a significant amount of programmes could not be adopted in 2014, and thus commitment appropriations for programmes under shared management lapsed in 2014 for an amount of eur 21 billion. this is a clearly defined procedural financial mechanism.
in writing. ‒ revisions of the multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation are a standard procedure at the beginning of each mff period. the adoption of this draft amending budget means that unused funds for 2014 can be transferred to subsequent years. i therefore voted in favour of this motion as it means that the majority of these unused funds will be used in 2015, thus accelerating the implementation and delivery of the cohesion policy across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported draft amending budget no 2/2015 dealing with the transfer of commitments under shared management, economic, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable growth, security and citizenship and global europe.
in writing. ‒ it has been established that action is needed at eu level in order to guarantee interoperability and continuity of the service throughout europe. following these discussions, i can support the text of this report. this proposal requires that new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles include the possibility that in the event of a severe accident an emergency call (ecall) to the 112 number is triggered automatically. it must also be possible to trigger manually emergency calls (ecalls) to the 112 number. the proposed draft legislation also covers elements related to privacy and data protection. it also forms part of a set of eu legal acts for ensuring the deployment of the 112-based ecall service by 1 october 2015.
in writing. ‒ in the event of a car accident, the ecall system establishes communication with the european emergency services (112) providing a minimum set of information about the accident, vehicle and passenger(s), allowing a faster, more effective response with less costs. the ecall system is free, safe, can work in all member states and respects the rules on data protection. i thus voted in favour of the report in order to guarantee interoperability and continuity of the service throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this initiative, because i believe that this is a development which can save lives. the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the vehicle and based on 112 represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens. through such a development, about 2 500 lives could be saved every year in europe.
in writing. ‒ the ecall in-vehicle system will save lives on our roads and i wholeheartedly support its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the vehicle and based on 112, which represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens. about 2 500 lives could be saved every year in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a draft legal proposal to cap crop-derived biofuel production and accelerate the shift to alternative sources (non-food derived). the aim behind this proposal is to cut greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and safeguard food security caused by the growing use of farmland for biofuel crops. using farmland to produce biofuel crops reduces the area available for food crops. this adds to pressure to free up more land, e.g. through deforestation, to grow more food – a process known as indirect land use change (iluc). eu member states will have to set a national target, no later than 18 months after the eu directive enters into force, for the share of advanced biofuels, e.g. those sourced from certain types of waste and residues and new sources such as seaweed, in total transport consumption.
in writing. ‒ a strong cap on land-based biofuels is needed in order to reach the 2020 targets of directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec and to ensure a transition towards advanced biofuels. failure to address the indirect land use change (iluc) effect would compromise the eu’s climate targets for the transport sector. the amendments send a strong signal that iluc factors have to be seriously considered. it is important to create and reserve a certain space for advanced biofuels in the future fuel mix. a dedicated and binding target for advanced biofuels as set by the amendments proposed is an effective way of doing this. i thus voted in favour of this report to support the development of new advanced biofuels in europe without hampering the use of climate-effective ethanol and biodiesel.
in writing. ‒ i would have wanted to see more ambition; however, what the agreement achieved was the best in the circumstances. i believe in moving towards advanced biofuels that ultimately deliver real benefits for the climate while avoiding competition with food production.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation for a second reading in order to keep the european union moving towards achieving its goals of promoting and increasing the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector by 2020. i also chose to support the rapporteur’s view that parliament should highlight the need for a longer-term policy that will lead to greater investment in sustainable fuels in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which calls for a move towards advanced biofuels that deliver real benefits for the climate while avoiding competition with food production.
in writing. ‒ the proposal, based on the commission’s own impact assessment, amends directive 94/62/ec by requiring member states to take measures to significantly reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags across the eu. it stipulates that these measures may include the use of economic instruments as well as marketing restrictions in derogation of article 18 of the directive. this derogation allows for a broader range of instruments available for member states to address the unsustainable consumption of plastic bags. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ littering of plastic bags is a widespread problem and can be harmful especially to the marine environment. decreasing plastic bag usage will lead to a cleaner environment in europe. the directive in question targets plastic bags between 15 and 50 microns in thickness which pose a greater environmental risk than thicker ones, as the former are rarely re-used. as a result of the decision, member states will either have to impose a price on plastic bags by the end of 2018 or limit the annual consumption of plastic bags to 90 bags per person by the end of 2019, and further reduce this number to 40 by the end of 2025. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am against rejecting the council position in this dossier. plastic bags are seriously harmful to the environment. they are also damaging to our marine environment. some member states, including malta, have already started addressing this issue. i believe that charging for the use of plastic bags is a quick way of reducing the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measures to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. the negotiations between parliament and the council have led to an obligation amongst member states to reduce the consumption of the aforementioned bags. these binding measures would be the first pieces of legislation introduced at the eu level that will reduce waste generation.
in writing. ‒ discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, not to mention the harm being done by marine litter to biodiversity. the problem can be easily and efficiently addressed as already proved in some member states. putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem overnight. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposed regulation is to establish an eu-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping, in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions and to encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption, as a first step towards a global mrv system. the mrv requirements will apply to co2 emissions arising from voyages between eu ports. all ships over 5 000 gross tons will be covered, with some exceptions, like fishing vessels. international maritime shipping remains the only means of transportation not included in the union’s action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i voted in favour of this proposed legislation.
in writing. ‒ at eu level maritime shipping is the only means of transportation not included in the european union’s action to reduce greenhouse emissions. this sector accounts for 4% of greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase in the future. the objective of the proposed regulation is to introduce a system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport as a first step towards a global mrv system.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the eu mrv system for co2 emissions from the maritime transport industry. this is a system which can hopefully encourage emission and fuel consumption reduction. having said that, i believe that this is just one step towards having a global agreement through the international maritime organisation, since maritime transport is an international industry. it is only through a global agreement that we can start addressing reduction in maritime transport emissions.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation seeks to develop a system of monitoring, recording and verification (mrv) of co2 emitted by marine transport. the eu institutions reached an agreement to create such a system and parliament chose to support this agreement and take negotiations to the next stage.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for a revision of the current basic legal framework for european statistics. its main goal is to further strengthen governance in the european statistical system. the text focuses on the professional independence of national statistical authorities, without sacrificing a high degree of accountability. the proposal also includes the establishment of a declaration of ‘commitments on confidence in statistics’, which would contain country-specific improvement actions. furthermore, the proposal aims to establish a legal framework for more extensive use of administrative data sources in european statistics. it also ensures the independent position of eurostat at european union level, and for the programming period of the european statistical programme to coincide with the european union’s multiannual financial framework. i voted in favour of this proposed legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it seeks to ensure the independent position of eurostat at european union level. the recommendation also includes a declaration of ʽconfidence in statisticsʼ which will enshrine the principle of professional independence. this is crucial for national and eu level statistics institutions to retain credibility.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that seeks to carry out a wholesale reform of the european statistical system in order to bring confidence back into european and national statistics.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the multiannual plan is to establish a framework for multispecies management of baltic sea stocks of cod, herring and sprat. this approach is considered more effective than management of single species and hence for the livelihoods of fishermen. it aims to consider inter-species interactions, such as the influence of cod on herring and sprat stocks and other aspects related to ecosystem and fisheries based on the most updated scientific knowledge. in view of these reasons i could vote in favour of this plan.
in writing. ‒ multiannual plans for fisheries management are an essential tool to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems, and also offer fishermen increased predictability over the long run. the multispecies management approach is considerably more effective than management of single species. the plan should provide for balanced, sustainable exploitation of stocks and thereby for the livelihoods of fishermen. i have thus voted in favour
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and in favour of moving the vote about the legislative resolution to a later stage. i believe that, being the first multiannual plan under the reformed common fisheries policy, it must ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect the precautionary and the eco-system-based approach to fisheries management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it supports the commission’s multi-species management approach. it takes into account the balanced and sustainable exploitation of the species concerned but also the livelihoods of those employed in the fishing sector. the rapporteur also highlights the level of flexibility presented by the commission, which is crucial for the ecosystem and also to allow new scientific approaches and data to be quickly taken on board and alter the management approach for the better.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this plan, which is the first multiannual plan under the reformed cfp. it aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat, and provide stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the most up to date scientific information on interactions within and between the stocks and with other aspects of the ecosystem and environment.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the common fisheries policy saw fundamental changes being made to the rules applicable to fisheries, including a landing obligation for all catches. the goal is to gradually forbid discards over the period 2015 to 2019. until recently discarding was common practice in the eu common fisheries policy as this landing obligation conflicts with seven other eu regulations currently in force, they need to be amended in parallel so as to bring them in line with the basic common fisheries policy regulation. under the current rules, fishermen have to discard any non-marketable catch or fish caught in excess of quota. this situation is at odds with the landing obligation. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ fishermen are now obliged to land all their catches that are unintended and non-marketable either because they do not have the quota for this or because they fall under the minimum conservation reference size, thus ending the practice of ʽdiscardingʼ fish. this landing obligation conflicts with several eu regulations currently in force. the proposed package of amendments to existing legislation seeks to review the specific measures which conflict with this new obligation. i have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposals and the legislative resolution, since they provide for the elimination of the wasteful practice of discarding. this creates planning and legal certainty for fishermen until new legislation in line with the reformed common fisheries policy is in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and the amended commission proposal as they suggest that the commission’s omnibus regulation should only be concerned with the implementation of the landing obligation for the fisheries concerned in 2015. this will allow 2015 to be treated as a test of the landing obligation’s efficacy.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on landing obligation. the ‘omnibus’ regulation on the landing obligation provides for the implementation of one of the central objectives of the cfp reform: the elimination of the wasteful practice of discarding. it creates planning and legal certainty for fishermen until new legislation in line with the reformed cfp is in place.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia to the european union, parliament has been called upon to give its consent to the protocol incorporating the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. the protocol contains a clause specifying that the agreement is amended following the entry into force of the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this vote reflects the accession of croatia to the eu, which as a member state is to enjoy the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states and the russian federation. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i consented to the protocol which takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the need to reflect this change in the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with russia.
in writing. ‒ i supported this technical measure, as parliament must give its consent before new member states can be recognised by signatories of the partnership and cooperation agreement. in this case parliament had to give its consent to the agreement being amended to take into account the treaty of accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the need to reflect this change in the existing pca with russia.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the bologna declaration was to create a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010 and a great deal has been accomplished, but more needs to be done. this particular report focuses primarily on reinvigorating the bologna process to meet new challenges as well as to ensure the quality and transparency of the ehea. it also represents parliament’s position for the upcoming ministerial conference in yerevan in may concerning the european standards and guidelines for quality assurance (esg). i particularly believe that in view of pursuing the eu goals of growth and a knowledge-based economy, the bologna process can play an important role in revision of the europe 2020 strategy, and in implementation of the investment plan for europe. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ nowadays the bologna process brings together 47 european countries in a common effort to make their higher education systems compatible and comparable. the report focuses on the importance of maximising the use of the funds available and finding new models of funding, on the need to reinvigorate the bologna process in the important role it can play in the revision of the europe 2020 strategy and in the juncker investment plan for europe. another important issue raised is the proper implementation of quality assurance (qa) systems and the strengthening of cooperation on qa across the european higher education area (ehea). the report also calls for proper implementation of the european credit transfer system. i thus voted in favour of the report which will now present parliament’s position in view of the ministerial conference in yerevan.
in writing. ‒ there is still much to be accomplished in fulfilling the goals of the bologna process. therefore, i voted in favour since it is imperative that the next ministerial conference in yerevan in may 2015 undertakes an objective and critical review of the progress and setbacks in achieving the priorities set out for 2012-2015. this review can help to further consolidate the european higher education area and to boost the bologna process with the full support of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process set in motion the creation of a european higher education area (ehea) and whilst this did much to improve the comparability of higher education structures across the union, more needs to be done to adjust educational systems to labour market needs. this adjustment would further the mobility already achieved by improving employability and competitiveness. improvements need to be made to ensure that our higher education institutions can adapt quickly to the economic challenges posed for the labour market and modern society as a whole. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it urges the commission and other stakeholders to work together to revitalise the bologna process.
in writing. ‒ a coherent, transparent, and high-quality higher education is essential for cultural, economic, and social development. the bologna objectives provide the essential means for european higher education to face current challenges. however, there is still much to be accomplished in fulfilling the goals of the bologna process. while it is clear that many achievements and significant structural convergence have been realised, new challenges have arisen. it is important that the next ministerial conference in yerevan in may 2015 undertakes an objective and critical review of the progress and setbacks in achieving the priorities set out for 2012-2015 with a view to further consolidating the ehea and boosting the bologna process with the full support of the eu. that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european film industry is an important facet of european culture that needs to be promoted and encouraged. this report aims at achieving this goal. the report aims to support european films, and strengthen its promotion, distribution and visibility so that all europeans may reap the benefits of their cultural legacy. it contains a number of political priorities that focus mainly on the potential of the european film industry, promotion and cross-border distribution, audience development, funding and programmes supporting the audiovisual sector, film and media literacy especially for young people, instruments of production and circulation of european films. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a new strategy for the film-making industry which aims to improve competitiveness in the digital age through better promotion and distribution of european films, balancing the production and distribution of funding from public sources, the development of new business models that increase the availability of cross-border european films, facilitating the translation strings and the introduction of film education in schools. the report also focuses on copyright and licensing as essential issues for digital film distribution throughout the eu. it also highlights the role of film heritage and small cinemas in promoting cultural content. i thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european focus on our continent’s film industry as i believe that there is great potential that still needs to be tapped. the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular of the european film industry, can help promote european cultural and linguistic diversity and heritage. they can also create growth and jobs, providing the eu with a competitive advantage in this regard. therefore, i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i welcome the commission’s initiative to establish a european film forum which would lead to a structured dialogue with all stakeholders in the audiovisual sector. the report also notes the important role that parliament’s lux prize plays in promoting european cinema. it is important that we continue to do our utmost to continue supporting the audiovisual sector. i also support the rapporteur’s suggestion that member states take steps to improve media literacy, and in particular film literacy, in school curricula and institutions of cultural education.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the european film industry in the digital era. potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe and in particular of the european film industry is yet to be fully exploited in the promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity and heritage within and outside europe, as well as the creation of growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, providing europe with a competitive advantage at a global level.
in writing. ‒ following tough discussions at eu committee level a compromise text has been presented underscoring the need for the strategy to focus on the sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view. it strongly rejects direct eu competence for forestry, but calls for coherence between the roles of the eu and the member states in forestry-related policies. it acknowledges that the eu has a role to play in strengthening cooperation to tackle transnational challenges such as fires, climate change, natural disasters or invasive alien species. finally, the report states that the implementation of the measures contained in forest management plans at the forest holding level must remain subject to national regulations and that bureaucratic burdens for eu forest owners are rejected. i can fully concur with this report and voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ forests are a valuable asset, serving economic, social and environmental purposes. forests and wooded land cover over 40% of european union territory, and represent 5% of the world’s forests. the eu is one of the biggest traders and consumers of wood products in the world. the report stresses that the eu forest strategy should focus on sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional roles from an economic, social and environmental point of view. it rejects direct eu competence for forestry but acknowledges that the eu has a role to play in strengthening cooperation to tackles national challenges such as fires, climate change, natural disasters and invasion by alien species. the report calls for the efficient use and reuse of wood but opposes legally-binding rules for prioritising the use of wood. i thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which touches on all aspects of forestry. i was also satisfied that the envi amendments which were tabled directly to plenary were voted in. the report deals with employment in the sector and sustainable use of forest resources. it also addressed the need for people in europe to better understand the importance of our forests.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it not only recognises the need for the new eu forest strategy to be in sync with the european union’s environment and climate policy, but also stresses that forestry should remain a national competence due to the sector’s local and regional nature. instead it suggests coherence between the european union’s goals and the member states’ competences. it is also important to see the new forest strategy as a means of addressing the need for increased investment in the sector and its workforce to ensure competitiveness in the long-term.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which touches on all aspects of forestry. the s&d group worked with others to ensure the report was as comprehensive as possible in a number of areas, such as employment in the sector, sustainable use of forest resources, and ensuring that people in europe understand better the importance of their forests and will be able to benefit from them in many ways.
in writing.– many experts have argued that trying to model european legislation on mmfs on that in the us, would be a mistake. still, it needed to be updated. the financial crisis had demonstrated that mmfs were vulnerable to liquidity problems at tough times. the update would set a framework within which mmfs could operate competitively. it would carry suitable protection for investors during financial crises and ensure ongoing flexible servicing of the short term financial needs of european business. prudential requirements needed to be strengthened without burdening unduly the financial services on offer in the european economy. the increasing variety by which such services could be packaged needed also to be taken into account. it balances the need for regulation with the need to enhance the competitiveness of financial services. the latter must remain a priority, if the overall aim of stimulating more new investment in europe is going to be achieved. equally, there will be a need in coming years to keep a watch on developments worldwide in money market and related funds sectors. given globalisation, european legislation cannot afford to lag on what is happening elsewhere, in both prudential and competitive terms.
we need to go beyond political slogans. today we can send an important message from this parliament. and so we should. we need more search and rescue resources in the mediterranean. the commission's plan and the european council's conclusions are a step forward, but there is still much to be done. it is necessary that the declarations made are fulfilled and the assets are in the best position to save people's lives. we must establish and give a clear mandate to operation triton, whose area will be extended and which will be able to carry out the operations that are needed. we must dismantle trafficking networks wherever they operate most vigorously and therefore welcome any concrete action taken in this regard. we also need to send a message to member states that it is time for an effective and binding solidarity mechanism. there needs to be a quota of people each country can take in from asylum seekers. this is not a matter for italy, malta or greece alone, but for every member state of the european union. the answer is not that europe is a fortress. we need a response that is built on solidarity. it is also necessary to examine the issue of visas issued on humanitarian grounds. on the one hand we have to address the needs of those who really need help, but at the same time we have to see to it that those who do not have and are not eligible for protection in europe are sent back. the whole point is that immigration and asylum deserve a european response that is better than it is today and that is fairer. let us make sure that this happens.
mr president, we all know what needs to be done. the extraordinary european council took hesitant steps in this direction: a search and rescue operation that is properly funded and widespread, to cover the north african coast; amendments to the dublin ii treaty that respect the interests of all european states, big and small; action against people-traffickers; a policy for regular migration to europe covering asylum seekers and economic migrants; a comprehensive development aid programme for sub-saharan africa. however, humanitarian action, vital though it is, can no longer be enough. recent events constitute a big discontinuity in past scenarios. south of malta, in 10 days there were more deaths by drowning than when the titanic sank. it is no longer just a humanitarian emergency. it is also a security crisis. it has to be dealt with immediately, in the interests of all europeans and all migrants. police exercises, sporadic or programmed, will not be enough. people-trafficking operations have reached industrial proportions. they will be penetrated – perhaps they already are – by extremist elements. the situation in libya, which has the longest stretch of coastline, is out of control. waiting for a unified government to form there before decisive action is taken will contribute to further instabilities and deaths. that now means blockading action off the coast of north africa. it would be the best way to save lives.
thank you mr president. today i think we have a historic moment in this parliament if we manage to agree on a resolution that goes beyond and is even better than what the council decided a few days ago. we all agree in this parliament that the pushback policy is unacceptable. we all agree in this parliament that we must save all the lives in distress in the mediterranean and we all agree that there must be real solidarity and that in my view, a country like my own malta needs to have quotas for every other country that is a member of the european union. but we don't want to be populists, we want to make real decisions that honour this parliament by sharing the problem with countries like malta, italy and greece and by looking at how we will solve the root of the problem and solve the root of the problem by having a long-term policy. what we are doing today is to solve the problem we have at the moment, but we also need to have a policy that looks at the long term and no longer at the immediate. thank you very much.
thank you mr president. with the exception of a number of initiatives taken last week, i feel that the european union and the member states have not taken this problem seriously enough. otherwise, we would not be talking about this human tragedy that is probably happening right now as we speak. i hope not. it is clear that countries such as malta, italy and greece are directly affected by migrants arriving by sea. clearly, they cannot carry this burden alone. we need concrete, visible and effective action to spread the message of responsibility to everyone. i would like to see a programme of solidarity and equal sharing of responsibility, a revision of the dublin ii rules, agreement on greater coordination to make the distribution of asylum seekers' quota more equitable between member states, development of safe routes for asylum seekers and finally not even tackling the root causes of the crises that are forcing people to flee their country. i hope that the eu-africa summit to be held in malta will be the first concrete step towards finding an international solution to this human tragedy. thank you.
in writing. ‒ in this particular case one has to highlight the fact that the 2013 commission represents the end of a multiannual programming period for which the new commission cannot be held responsible. however the report stipulates that the lessons taught particularly within the discharge procedure and the financial and social crisis are to be learnt, with which i fully agree. the report also welcomes the progress made and calls the commission for performance orientation, transparency and good governance in europe. while this report lacks clarity and carefulness in the use and interpretation of data and statements made during the commissioner's hearings, also dealing with policy issues which are not in its competence, i still agree with the general flow of it. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii – commission and executive agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu general budget - european commission and executive agencies. as the 2013 commission represents the end of a multiannual programming period for which the new commission cannot be held responsible, parliament can only recommend that the lessons learnt particularly within the discharge procedure and the financial and social crisis be learnt. the year 2013 marks a historical point in terms of impact and change of political and economic challenges, obliging us all to review our priorities and the results achieved. the report welcomes the progress made and calls on the commission as well as the other institutions for performance orientation, transparency and good governance in europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission proposal to boost the financing of the youth employment initiative. every young person should have the possibility of getting a job, an apprenticeship or professional training within four months of becoming unemployed. i call on the member states to accelerate their efforts regarding the implementation of the youth employment initiative. i also would like to see the commission keeping its promise regarding the immediate transfer of additional pre-financing to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support the commission’s efforts to facilitate the easier access to the already allocated funds for the youth employment initiative. the eur 1 billion will boost pre-financing for operational programmes in 2015 and raise the pre-financing rate from 1% to 30%. this demonstrates the union’s determination to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which calls to boost the financing of the youth employment initiative. every young person gets a job, an apprenticeship, traineeship or professional training within four months of becoming unemployed. this reports calls on the member states to accelerate their efforts regarding the implementation of the yei and on the commission to stick to its promise regarding the immediate transfer of the additional pre-financing to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recast file which seeks to codify an existing regulation that deals with common rules on surveillance and safeguard measures and which has been substantially amended several times.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 is now void following the accession of russia to the world trade organisation, the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and expiration of the transitional product-specific safeguard mechanism with china.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report that sets out safeguard and surveillance instruments which can be applied to the import of products including coal and steel, but excluding textiles which are subject to a separate regulation. this regulation applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the main change of the recast concerns updating the annex to remove countries which have now become members of the wto, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification of texts regarding the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. therefore i voted in favour of this report as codification of european regulations is essential for transparency and citizen involvement in eu decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the eec and norway
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour this proposal which fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of albania because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal since it fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report concerning the codification of texts regarding certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts is straightforward and presents no change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the stabilisation and association agreement and interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ this proposal fully preserves the content of the act being codified. i voted in favour of this proposal since this is just a procedural task.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts presents no change in their substance. it is crucial that agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions are codified in order to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ this proposal fully preserves the content of the act being codified and since this is just a procedural task, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification of texts regarding articles 107 and 108 treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts presents no change in their substance. therefore i voted in favour of this report as codification of european regulations is essential for transparency and citizen involvement in eu decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid. that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ since the proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and this is just a procedural task, i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification of texts regarding the detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposed codification of the existing texts presents no change in their substance. therefore i voted in favour of this report as codification of european regulations is essential for transparency and citizen involvement in eu decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the rules for the application of article 108 tfeu. that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives an in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas. this complements the horizontal appraoch of the annual report of the court on the implementation of the eu budget which forms the basis for parliament's work on discharge for various institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it covers the various special reports produced by the court of auditors which allow the parliament to properly fulfil its role as a discharge authority on the union’s budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported these court of auditors special reports in the context of the 2013 commission discharge, which give an in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. this complements the horizontal approach of the annual report of the court on the implementation of the eu budget which forms the basis for parliament’s work on discharge for the various institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the court of auditors' opinion that the final annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds (edfs). the report recommends granting the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs for the financial year 2013. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this vote deals with the 8th, 9th and 10th european development fund allocations. edf is the main eu aid instrument for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean, pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories aiming at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty. the report under discussion underlines the need for including the edf in the general eu budget in order to improve policy coherence and better democratic scrutiny. it is clear that the report aims to improve the current operations in order for europe to assure itself that the money it is investing in these regions ends up in the right hands. i cannot but support such efforts, hence i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu general budget - 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. the european development fund is the main eu aid instrument for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean and pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories aiming at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty – one of the core political priorities shared by the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2013 taking note of the fact that the resources assigned for the parliament's budget have been used for their intended purpose and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the report also calls for increased transparency and to address the need for a roadmap to a single seat. i have thus voted in favor.
in writing. ‒ the report in question highlighted the achievments but also pointed out the weaknesses of the administration of the european parliament. as could have been expected, the fact that us mep’s were debating the pratices within our own institution meant that we would have a clearer idea of the relaties at play when compared to anlaysing and voting on reports dealing with other institutions. in fact a long list of amendments were tabled on this particular report. after analyzing closely the different amendments and voting on them seperately my final vote was in favour of pargneaux report.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i - european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which recognises the achievements of and points out weaknesses in parliamentʼs administration.
in writing. ‒ council continues not to reply to the questions submitted to it by the european parliament. all union institutions ought to be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as union institutions. i have thus voted in favour of the report which recommends postponing the decision on granting the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the two budgetary authorities that grant discharge to the eu insitutions are the council and the parliament. if either of the two budgetary authorities are not satisfied with the way a particuar institution would have dealt with the aforementioned in a particular year it can decide not to give this discharge, thus putting the entity in disrepute. in the case of the european council and council there were no problems of the sort, hence i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision to postpone the discharge regarding the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii – european council and council.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu general budget on the european council and council
in writing. ‒ noting the report's recommendation based on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 and the court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2013, i voted in favour to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the two budgetary authorities when it comes to granting discharge to the eu insitutions are the council and the parliament. if either of the two budgetary authorities are not satisfied with the way a particuar institution would have dealt with expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures in a particular year it can decide not to give this discharge, thus putting the entity in disrepute. in the case of the european external action service (eeas) which is the eu’s diplomatic arm there were no problems of the sort, hence i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision to grant the discharge regarding the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section x – european external action service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu general budget on the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ noting the report's recommendation based on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 and the court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2013, i voted in favour to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision to grant the discharge regarding the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv – court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu general budget on the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ noting the report's recommendation based on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 and the court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2013, i voted in favour to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ discharge refers to the process by which a particular eu institution has its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures analysed. the two budgetary authorities when it comes to granting such discharge to the eu institutions are the council and parliament. if either of the two budgetary authorities are not satisfied with the way a particular institution has dealt with the aforementioned in a particular year it can decide not to give this discharge, thus putting the entity in disrepute. in the case of the european court of auditors there were no problems of this sort, hence i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision to grant the discharge regarding the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section v – court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu general budget on the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ noting the report's recommendation based on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 and the court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2013, i voted in favour to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vi – european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu general budget on the economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ noting the report's recommendation based on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 and the court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2013, i voted in favour to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the committee of the regions, the eu's assembly of local and regional representatives there were no problems encountered and hence i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii - committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the eu general budget on the committee of regions
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european ombudsman which carried extremely good work in favour of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii – european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the eu general budget on the european ombudsman
in writing. ‒ noting the report's recommendation based on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 and the court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2013, i voted in favour to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ both the council and parliament found no issues with the expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures of the european data protection supervisor, hence i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix – european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the eu general budget on the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ this vote deals with the report for the agencies' discharge 2013. the findings in general were quite positive: it points out the important role that the decentralised agencies play in implementing eu policies and welcomes the demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" followed the common approach" agreed in 2012. issues that are of concern are the rather high level of carry overs which in particular need better budgetary planning, a general lack of visibility to the eu citizens which required improvements in communication policies and in the case of some agencies delays in the establishment of head quarter agreements with the host countries. observing this generally positive overview i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support this resolution regarding the discharge on the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control.
in writing. ‒ have voted in favour of the report on performance, financial management and control of eu agencies
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european police college (cepol) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european aviation safety agency (easa) is vital for ensure that our planes and flights are safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european asylum support office (easo) because i support this agency in its work. i further believed that easo registered good progress in terms of the work it is doing.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european banking authority (eba) is making good progress and its performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i am of the opinion that the european centre for disease prevention and control is important to ensure eu citizens’ safety and i believe that the centre has been registering progress.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european chemicals agency (echa) is an agency which is extremely important for the eu as a whole. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. i believe that the european environment agency is doing extremely good work when it comes to the protection of the environment in the eu as a whole and also in controlling the environment levels in the different member states. moreover we need to support this agency which is responsible of keeping our environment clean and sustainable.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on discharge of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. i believe that the european fisheries control agency (efca) registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european food safety authority(efsa)is an agency which is extremely important in ensuring our food safety. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european institute for geneder equality(eige) is an agency which works towards achieving gender equality across the eu. this is one of the priorities in the eu. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the european institute for innovation and technology (eit), the court of auditors detected for the second time in a row serious problems and it has given a negative assessment. there were shortcomings with staff employment and problems with the implementation of an action plan recommended in the previous discharge. for this reason i voted against granting the discharge. eit now has until 2015 to show improvement related to these shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european medicines agency (ema) is extremely important for the eu as a whole. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. i believe that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is doing very positive work for the eu as a whole. i further believe that the monitoring centre registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european maritime safety agency (emsa) has extremely important work to carry out in ensuring the maritime sector’s safety. the agency is carrying out its work in line with the principle of sharing best practice and support services.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) is important for the eu's information security. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european railway agency (era) is improtant to ensure the smooth running of railways across the eu. in my view the agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since. i believe that the eu agencies are achieving good results in their many areas of work as is the case with the european securities and markets authority (esma).
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since i believe that the european training foundation (etf) should be further supported in its work. in my view this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the agencies' netowrk is becoming strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. i beleive that eu agencies are achieving good results in their many areas of work as is the case the eu-lisa. .
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. i believe that the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) has extremely important work to carry out and to ensure safety and health on the work place. i am of the view that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and support services. i believe that th eu agencies are achieving good results in their many areas of work as is the case the euratom supply agency.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is extremely important for the eu as a whole. i further believe that this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) carries out very important work in the eu. furthermore, this agency registered progress with the way it dealt with its expenditure, management of human resources and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union’s judicial cooperation unit for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european police office (europol)is the eu's law enforcement agency whose main goal is to help achieve a safer europe for the benefit of all eu citizens. europol further assists the eu's member states in their fight against serious international crime and terrorism. this work should be supported.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. the european union agency for fundamental rights is one of the eu’s decentralised agencies which provide expert advice to the institutions of the eu and the member states. i support the fact that the fra helps to ensure that the fundamental rights of people living in the eu are protected.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect in the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since frontex by promoting, coordinating and developing european border management in line with the eu fundamental rights charter can carry out important work for the eu.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge. by developing a new generation of global navigation satellite systems europe is working to lay the foundations for new high-technology industry development, job creation and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking is one of the 7 eu joint undertaking public-private-partnerships in the domain of new technology and research. given that significant progress has been made by artemis in improving the situation since 2013 with recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking deals specifically with developing breakthrough technologies to significantly increase the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport. given that significant progress has been made by clean sky in improving the situation since 2013 with recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ eniac deals specifically with nanotechnology. significant progress has been made by eniac in improving the situation since 2013 with recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented. i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking deals specifically with fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this joint undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking deals specifically with innovative medicines. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this join undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to not support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy brings together industry and research bodies in public private partnerships. iter deals specifically with fusion energy. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this join undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to not support the decision regarding the discharge implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking deals specifically with high performing aviation. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this join undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ the money market funds report is advocating a positive way by which these funds can be regulated in a way that makes sense to all players. i voted in favour of this report since it presents measures which are aimed at enhancing investor protection while also protecting europe’s financial stability.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report on the parliament’s view of the commission’s proposal on money market funds (mffs). these funds act as a source of short-term financing for financial institutions and governments. use of mmfs allows the bodies that invest in them to spread their credit risk and exposure to potential financial shocks. the proposed regulation seeks to make mmfs more resilient to future financial crises.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on money market funds. a money market fund (mmf) is a mutual fund that invests in short-term debt such as money market instruments issued by banks, governments or corporations. mmfs are used by a significant proportion of industries, local authorities, charities and foundations as a cash management instrument to manage their excess of cash, and they provide for an important source of short-term financing: in europe, around 22 % of short-term debt securities issued by governments or by the corporate sector are held by mmfs. they hold 38 % of short-term debt issued by the banking sector, and mmfs have around eur 1 trillion assets in portfolios in the eu. furthermore, because of the systemic interconnectedness with the banking sector and with corporate and government finance, mmfs have been identified as acting as shadow banks. these funds are also susceptible to different risks, hence the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal in question is part of an alignment exercise following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon to ensure that the previous decision making procedures in trade policy were aligned to the new delegated and implementing acts. during this exercise, the commission detected some errors that needed to be corrected. in order to incorporate some substantive amendments, it was deemed necessary to transform the codification into a recast. these were largely technical corrections and i voted in favour of the commission proposal and the legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report covers a regulation that sets limits on the importation of textile products from the only countries that are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or by other specific eu import rules. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it largely concerns technical changes to existing regulations that are being codified by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the imports of textile products from certain third countries, which are not covered by specific union rules. the main change of the recast concerns updating the annex to remove countries which have now become members of the wto, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it reflects the fact that the treaty of lisbon established the parliament as a true co-legislator. the report also notes the necessity to improve the parliament’s it security infrastructure to ensure the maximum possible level of protection.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on parliament's estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that europe needs to be proactive in defending the eu’s and ultimately our citizens’ financial interest. the establishment of an independent and effective eppo will help to protect the eu's financial interests against fraud and corruption.
in writing. ‒ this interim report stresses that the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) should be a fully independent body, free from the political influence and pressure of national governments and eu institutions. the report also highlights the eppo’s competences and mandate. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is essential that the eu agencies and offices’ competences do not overlap to the detriment of what they are trying to achieve.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. the establishment of an independent and effective eppo will help to protect the eu's financial interests against fraud and corruption.
although freedom of religion is a fundamental principle, equality of living is still a long way off. kenya is a country with a diverse ethnic, cultural and religious diversity. unfortunately it is a country full of insecurity and uncertainty, where terrorism and religious fundamentalism have led to the atrocious attack, targeting the rights of the kenyan people, to live in peace, to freedom of choice of religion or the right to education. the right to education is not a sin! it is, rather, a fundamental right that encourages freedom and increases well-being. could it be that the world has learned nothing from malala yousoufsai? better solutions need to be developed to combat all forms of terrorism and thus protect educational institutions from such attacks. we need to recognise that our top priority is to protect students and to help and encourage them to stay in school. the european union shall uphold its responsibility to assist and support the people of kenya in defending their right to education and religion. the african union together with the international community and the european union, needs to engage in concrete actions in the fight against terrorist groups as well as in making viable solutions for the security, peace and stability of the region. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. yes, you are right: the countries of africa are all countries with different diversities, different cultures, different ethnicities, different problems. there are those who have problems that are primarily economic and there are countries that have problems that are primarily terrorism. the european union cannot see that everyone is the same. the solutions are not the same because the problems are different and it is important that the european union sees that there are specific solutions to the problems of specific african countries.
cultural heritage is a concrete and lasting reminder of the achievements of our forefathers. it is a reminder of our history and a collective memory that reminds us of who we are and where we come from. cultural heritage provides a sense of identity and continuity; we are all working together to achieve a common goal. a crime against cultural heritage is a crime against humanity. nevertheless, cultural heritage is often the target of crime and its destruction can become a weapon of war and a strategy to destabilise communities. it is also a weapon that destroys the cultural, ethnic or religious identity of the community. we cannot remain silent to the destruction of hundreds and thousands of years of history and culture. the international community must do everything in its power to put an end to these crimes against humanity once and for all. i therefore call on the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs to take a firm stand for the preservation of collective cultural property, assist those countries in preserving their historic civilisation and fight against illicit trade, because cultural heritage belongs to us all and it must not fall into the hands of terrorist organisations, such as isis.
in writing.– visually impaired persons are often denied the fundamental right to information and education: the right to read, as the great majority of publications remain unavailable in analogue or digital format accessible to visually impaired persons. visually impaired people face a ‘book famine’ in which only between 1-7% of books have been ever published in accessible formats. the ratification of the marrakesh treaty is eagerly awaited by disabled people and their families, so that they can fully enjoy freedom of expression and the right to education. technology has been instrumental in shaping solutions to the issue of accessibility. according to the very important aspect of an ageing eu population, there are increasing numbers of visually impaired persons and other disabled people. as this number grows, so will the scale of the problem of the exclusion of a relevant share of the population from access to information. persons with disabilities must be allowed timely and comprehensive access to published works, and this can be achieved in a way that maximises the potential outreach to visually impaired persons while respecting the provisions of copyright laws.
president of the european investment bank.– madam president, let me first of all say that i am very grateful to have been invited to contribute to this debate here today and to comment on the report of the rapporteur and his colleagues on the eib’s annual report for 2013. it is always a little bit awkward to be in 2015 and then discuss the report of 2013, because many issues that are very current in the minds of people and the issues that also the rapporteur has just mentioned go beyond 2013. they are going into last year, this year and then into the future. this is why i will not limit myself only to 2013, if you agree. the treaty does not provide for this exchange of views, but i think it is only proper that the bank, given its size and relevance in the global financial landscape and its role within the eu institutional framework, comes to the european parliament to explain what it is doing, especially with eu budgetary funds, where that is applicable. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and his colleagues for the 2013 annual report. i appreciate the support you give us – and have given us – to ensure that the eib, the eu bank, will continue to deliver benefits for the eu economy and for eu citizens as well as contribute to economic development in our external activities. notably, i appreciate your explicit support in the report: on the eib as a catalyst for financing sound public and private long-term investments; on continuing to implement best prudential banking practices; on maintaining the very strong eib capital position, and on selection of eib projects based on their viability, added value and impact on economic recovery. these factors you mention and support in the report are of fundamental importance for the bank. let me start by recapping on what we have achieved since 2013 – the year under review – and look forward into the future, even if that is always a risky exercise. 2013 was very important for the bank: the first full year of operations following the eur 10 billion capital increase in paid-in capital approved by the shareholders in 2012. thanks to this capital injection, the eib promised to increase its volume of loan signatures every year, over three years, by eur 20 billion, or nearly 40% in comparison to the year before. i am pleased to be able to report that last year, in 2014, eib signatures increased further to eur 77 billion – eur 27 billion more than would have been achieved without the extra capital and substantially higher than the figure in the report for 2013. we are now only a third of the way through 2015, but i can already announce that we have completed the additional eur 60 billion of lending we promised to deliver at the june 2012 european council. that means, to be clear, when we asked the shareholders to agree to the capital increase that we needed, made in this very parliament, we said that we would be able to trigger additional investment to the volume of eur 180 billion for over three years out of a capital increase of eur 10 billion. the deadline for achieving this is december 2015. we have already achieved it today, and this shows the multiplier which has been there – the multiplier was 18. if we continue to the end of the year, the achieved multiplier will be far beyond 20. we are now in a situation where we have discussed the assumed multiplier for the juncker plan and, since we know that we are going to go into more risky business, it is obvious that we have to be a little bit more careful and cautious. therefore, we have calculated on a very sound basis: 15. we have to be on the safe side, but we are extremely confident that we will be able to deliver, and better. more importantly, because we rarely support more than a third of a project’s total cost, this extra lending has helped mobilise at least eur 180 billion of additional investments, and that is important. the eu bank crowds in the private sector in two ways: number one, on the basis of the capital increase, we were able to borrow more from the markets. we go to the markets to borrow eur 60 to 80 billion every year by selling eib bonds. the capital increase has enabled us to do much more on this. the second part of the multiplier is the fact that we never finance roughly more than a third of a project, so two-thirds come from other sources. that brings about the multiplier, which we calculated cautiously at 18 for the capital increase and at 15 for the juncker plan. thus the eib has delivered the capital increase faster than expected, which enables us to further support the economic recovery in europe going forward. i do expect eib lending volumes to be above eur 70 billion annually for this year and the two next years, thanks to the guarantee in the context of efsi, if it comes about. this decision lies in your hands, or now in the hands of the trilogue. let me turn to some important broader issues mentioned in the report. as the eu bank, we know that the finance we provide is a means to an end. we provide for viable and sound projects where it makes a difference. unlike a commercial bank, our objective is not profit, but economic and societal outcomes. this is why our lending, anchored within the priorities of europe 2020, has gone in particular to infrastructure – that is, to strategic infrastructure – climate action, innovation and skills and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which, as your report rightly points out, are the backbone of europe’s economy. in 2013 and 2014, the eib group – that is the eib and the european investment fund together – provided some eur 50 billion of new finance for smes, supporting over eur 100 billion of financial investment by more than 500 000 companies that together employ more than six million people. we are conscious that many firms still struggle to get loans at reasonable conditions, and therefore we will continue to expand our offering. new, targeted initiatives taken recently include the ‘sme initiative’ signed with spain, which will combine eib/eif finance with eu budgetary funds to support more than eur five billion of lending by local financial intermediaries. let me also mention the ‘jobs for youth’ pillar, one of the two strands of our ‘skills and jobs’ programme, which aims at stimulating job creation for young people by smes, with a specific focus on european regions most impacted by high youth unemployment. as a matter of fact, at the informal european summit in paris in july 2013 we promised to make available an additional eur six billion for the fight against youth unemployment within the year 2013, and by december 2013 we had delivered eur 9.3 billion. it has therefore been a big success story, not only in terms of volumes, but also in terms of the impact it has had on the real employment of young people. support to smes will continue at a sustained pace in 2015 through our normal business, but also under the investment plan for europe. and this is not only via eif, but also by eib. let me remind you that at least one in every four euro of capacity of efsi will be dedicated to smes and midcaps. at the end of 2013, the eib published an evaluation of its sme lending over the period 2005-2011, and we of course stand ready to provide you with further information. the eib is committed to supporting the eu’s ambitious energy and climate policy goals. for the last six years, more than 25% of our annual lending has contributed to climate action. since 2013, we have set stringent energy performance standards that effectively close the door on financing unabated coal power plants. with the encouragement of this house, we were able, in 2011, to launch the european energy efficiency fund, which has already helped mobilise more than eur 400 million of final investment for a technical assistance budget of just under eur 20 million. i would also like to highlight the european local energy assistance facility elena. with eu grants of eur 69 million over the past five years, elena is well on the way to mobilising eur 3.7 billion in final investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy schemes in cities across europe – including this year’s green capital, which is bristol. together with the commission, we have recently launched a number of additional products to encourage more private-sector lending for energy efficiency and small renewable investments, and a new natural capital facility to support biodiversity projects. as a follow-up to our energy policy review last year, the bank has also this year concluded a public consultation on its approach to climate action. we aim to have reached and published the conclusions before the paris negotiations – underlining europe’s strong commitment. lending to education is a key pillar of the eib’s innovation and skills programme and is crucial to address the competitiveness gap in the eu. between 2000 and 2014, the eib’s lending to education represented around eur 30.6 billion, corresponding to more than eur 2 billion on a yearly basis. our support for education has been strengthened with the launch, in july 2013, of the ‘skills and jobs – investing for youth’ programme which i already mentioned. the bank will continue to assess, throughout 2015-2017, how it can best contribute to increasing the availability of state-of-the-art training opportunities for young people, and increase the competitiveness of smes and midcaps which provide employment or training opportunities to young people. in doing so, it strives to complement national measures and the youth employment guarantee programme of the commission. the eib is committed to working even more closely with national promotional institutions (npis), banks and similar institutions and banks in all eu member states, benefiting from the npis’ local presence and local market knowledge to contribute to eib lending. following the european council request, the cooperation with national promotional banks has further intensified. the eib, together with the commission, has initiated and enhanced cooperation in four working groups. these working groups are expected to deliver concrete proposals in time for the june ecofin council. in your 2013 report, you stressed that the eib must continue to be a financial institution of good practice. i can assure you that we do put a very strong emphasis on being a leading financial institution, no – the leading financial institution – when it comes to issues such as due diligence, compliance, good governance and accountability. we are continuously in contact with other international financial institutions, international organisations and relevant authorities to ensure that we apply best banking practices. it is particularly true for the global forum initiatives. we cannot afford to slip behind. we need to make sure that our financing is contributing to its aims in the best possible way. we need to lead by example, and we are able and ready to learn. every year we finance approximately 500 operations, and some of them have many different projects underneath. in a few isolated cases, projects go wrong – sometimes for reasons beyond our control. however, i am very proud that these few cases of failure rarely result in any losses for european taxpayers. europe also has global responsibilities. this year we will see the adoption of the united nations sustainable development goals. this was a focus of our discussions in washington this month with other multilateral development banks. we are very much looking forward to the financing for development conference in july. ahead of the paris unfccc (united nations framework convention on climate change) talks in december, climate action will also remain a cross-cutting concern in our activity, both inside and outside the eu. the eib is already the world’s leading public financier of climate action projects and has pioneered the market in green bonds. the eib is willing to do more in its external action and will engage with the european external action service, the commission, member states and other financial institutions on ways to maximise our impact. maybe the limiting of our activities outside the european union to 10% of the business volume will not be the last word. at least, i personally hope so. the successful implementation of the eib capital increase has put the eib in the position to contribute strongly to the investment plan for europe, and notably efsi. we are now committed to mobilise eur 315 billion in eu investment over the next three years. providing efsi with an eu guarantee will allow the bank to conduct more operations with a higher risk profile than it does currently, but we will maintain our high standards of due diligence. let me assure you that we are willing to live up fully to our institutional responsibilities in setting up the european fund for strategic investments and reporting back to you regularly on the impact it has had for europe and its citizens.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission welcomes parliament’s report on the european investment bank and shares its recognition of the important role the european investment bank (eib) plays in supporting europe’s recovery from the financial and economic crisis. the commission is glad to see that the eib delivered and indeed exceeded the objectives of the growth and employment facility and that the eib commits to continue its important catalytic role to resolve the current investment and competitiveness challenges in the european union. the commission understands that eib financing is geographically distributed according to demand from respective member states and the eib’s business development considerations. today i want to highlight the eib’s efforts to support programme countries, which increased by 24.7 % in 2014 compared to 2013. i would also like to mention the innovative instruments such as the trade finance facility and the sme guarantee fund. the investment plan for europe confirms the eib’s central role in helping the eu deliver on the eur 315 billion objective, in combination with eu budget resources and national promotional banks. the european union investment plan and the european fund for strategic investments lie at the core of these efforts to catalyse new investments for the eu economy. last week, i was pleased to hear that the european investment bank announced that it has approved up to eur 300 million in financing for the first four projects as part of the investment plan for europe, in which the eib is the commission’s strategic partner. these projects are in different sectors – research and development, healthcare, industrial innovation, and transport – and in different countries: spain, italy, ireland and croatia. they serve as examples of investments that the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) may support in the near future. this means that until the efsi is fully operational, the eib is already pre-financing projects. we look forward to finalising the legislative process for the efsi together with parliament and the council and to realising its full potential in close cooperation with the eib. the efsi – at the heart of the investment plan – should be up and running by september this year. the efsi is also a crucial opportunity to support infrastructure investments in line with eu policy priorities such as the europe 2020 strategy and the 2030 climate and energy package. the investment plan has highlighted a broad range of priorities, including renewables and energy efficiency retrofits, water and wastewater, improved rail connections, greening projects in the area of maritime transport, alternative fuel infrastructure and third generation bio-refineries. furthermore, the european union has increased the level of ambition on climate actions, in particular with the adoption in october 2014 by the eu council of the 2030 climate and energy targets. the commission welcomes the eib objective to publish its new strategy by the paris conference. access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) remains a pressing problem in several member states. in 2014, the commission welcomed the launch of the eib group risk enhancement mandate (erem). we also welcome the eib’s contribution to revitalising the european securitisation market and new product developments to promote financial inclusion under the risk capital resources (rcr) mandate. at the start of the new multiannual financial framework running until 2020, the european investment bank and the commission launched a new generation of financial instruments in favour of smes and midcaps such as innovfin – eu finance for innovators – and risk-sharing products under competitiveness of enterprises and smes. on transparency policy, openness and accountability are key eu concepts. the commission supports the eib in being one of the frontrunners among other international financial intermediaries in access to information and transparency rules. in this respect, we value the eib’s commitment to complying with eu policy initiatives and legislative framework on transparency and public disclosure of information and to following international best practice. we welcome the recent approval of the revised eib group transparency policy, after a public consultation of civil society organisations. on external actions, parliament calls for a thorough assessment and a report on risks and control systems associated with eu blending facilities. the eu platform for blending in external cooperation (eubec) has reviewed and compared the performance of different eu blending mechanisms. as regards the alignment of eib external lending activities with eu policies before the mid-term review, practical measures for linking the general objectives of the eu guarantee and their implementation will be set out in the updated regional technical operational guidelines. the commission is currently reviewing these guidelines together with the eib and in consultation with the eeas, and the updated guidelines will be transmitted to parliament and the council in the coming weeks. your report calls for cooperation between the eib and the ebrd to be enhanced and the commission actively supports this approach, amongst others, under the memorandum of understanding between the european commission, the eib and the ebrd on activities outside the european union. this memorandum fosters a culture of regular exchange of information and the joint identification of co-financing opportunities based on each partner’s comparative advantage. thank you for your attention and i look forward to the debate on this report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs thank you, mr president. let me begin this intervention by praising my colleagues in the committee on economic affairs for adopting certain essential suggestions which were put forward in the committee on employment. so, in my opinion, this is a good thing in the final opinion. the annual report shows that in 2013 the european investment bank focused only on issues concerning employment and social affairs. the eur 9. 1 million spent on promoting craft skills and job opportunities for young people is an increase of 50% of the original planned expenditure. and so when one considers the large volume of youth unemployment across europe one can still argue that this is not enough. but on the other hand, when one considers the projects that either focus on microfinance and on supporting smes, it is clear that we are on the right track. mr president, i believe that the eib has done immensely valuable work, but i still stress that climate change and energy independence need particular and sustained attention.
in writing. ‒ europe has the highest rate of alcohol consumption in the world. while no one would want to interfere in responsible drinking, europe needs to act in order to control the health effects of irresponsible and uncontrolled drinking. i also believe that we need to find better ways to protect children who have to live in dire circumstances because of the irresponsible drinking habits of their parents or carers. i agree with the need to work on a new eu alcohol strategy (2016-2022) with a view to assisting and supporting member states in implementing measurable and rigorous policy goals, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ having followed the development of the eu alcohol strategy for some time, i voted in favour of this resolution encouraging the adoption of this strategy. i chose to support this resolution because of its call for member states to introduce specific policies and treatments that reduce alcohol addiction in individuals. it is also crucial that education and awareness campaigns regarding the effects of alcohol consumption are carried out amongst the public, particularly minors.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on an alcohol strategy. tackling alcohol-related harm with robust policy goals would result in significant improvements in public health and reduced costs in health care and social spending. productivity would also increase, as workplace absenteeism would decline.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which remembers the victims of the rana plaza tragedy in bangladesh on the occasion of the second anniversary of the tragic events. the resolution calls for more commitment to real change by the government of bangladesh, including by making the necessary changes to the bangladesh labour act. in bangladesh there are still numerous obstacles to the exercise of freedom of association and collective bargaining, trade-union limitations and the lack of effective labour inspection for the enforcement of labour standards.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution recalls the victims of this tragedy in bangladesh, and i offer my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the rana plaza tragedy. the resolution also notes the positive steps that have been made in the field of occupational health and safety over the past two years. the eu-led initiative to launch the sustainability compact has had a positive impact and the bangladeshi authorities are reportedly making good progress in improving health and safety in factories and working conditions in the ready-made garment (rmg) industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on second anniversary of the rana plaza building that collapsed on 24 april 2013 outside dhaka, causing the death of over 1 100 people and leaving some 2 500 people injured.
i voted in favour because i want to talk about people and not about numbers. for me that two-year-old boy dressed up to go on the journey to new hope and instead his lifeless body ended up washed up on the libyan coast could easily have been named omar because i prefer to give him a name than a number and i hope these people don't become numbers. in malta we have been facing this problem for many years and at last it seems that the countries of the european union are waking up but few citizens believe that this time things can really be different. resolution alone is not sufficient. we need a long-term solution. we must address the root causes of the problem in african countries and the european union-african union summit in malta could be the first step after many years although much more remains to be done to reach a lasting solution and above all we must address the situation in libya today before tomorrow with immigration at the top of the agenda.
in writing. ‒ i believe that while in the european council conclusions it is positive to see more member states dedicating more resources to saving lives, while it is positive to see a push towards granting more attention to libya and while i welcome the malta eu-african union summit, i still believe that much more could have been done when it comes to responsibility sharing. the conclusions still lack the proper political will and commitment by all governments of the different member states to really have fair responsibility sharing. voluntary relocation programmes never gave the desired result and i still cannot understand how the european council is expecting that ‘emergency relocation between all member states on a voluntary basis’ will give results this time round. the european parliament joint motion for a resolution, even though very watered down from the s&d resolution to which i am a signatory, is already a better position than the european council’s position.
in writing. ‒ having played a role in shaping this joint resolution i was proud to support it and i am very pleased with the level of cross-party support it received. it is significant that specific reference was made to the binding mechanism for solidarity and also the establishment of a quota system to share the distribution of asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the latest tragedies in the mediterranean and eu migration and asylum policies because this is a big step forward in the eu’s approach to the migration problem. the policies which have been voted upon favour the asylum seekers as well as receiving countries. this resolution also indicated that eu is recognising that this is a european problem which requires a european solution.
in writing. ‒ for my group it was imperative that the vote would be postponed on the legislative resolution so that the discussions would enter into trilogues during the first reading. i am also in favour of granting trade preferences to western balkan countries to support their socio-economic development and underpin their european trajectory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the preferential trade regime currently in place between the european union and the western balkans has resulted in an increase in exports from the western balkans to the eu. a further five-year extension of the autonomous trade measures confirms the eu’s commitment to the future european integration of the western balkans. it is crucial that we view the suspension of this agreement with bosnia and herzegovina as an incentive to resolve the ongoing disagreement with the eu.
in writing. ‒ this resolution condemns the deliberate terrorist attack perpetrated by al-shabaab on 2 april 2015 in garissa, in which it assassinated 147 young, innocent university students and injured 79 others. it specifically condemns all violations of human rights, especially when people are killed on the basis of their religion, beliefs or ethnic origin. it also calls for the european union to assist the kenyan government, both diplomatically and by helping in military training, in cracking down on al-shabaab. i believe that europe cannot just be a spectator to this massacre and that we should give all required help to end it once and for all. hence i fully support this resolution and voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the recent terrorist attack on a university in garissa county in kenya, in which 147 students were killed and another 79 wounded. this is the most recent large-scale attack perpetrated by the al-qaida-affiliated terrorist group al-shabaab. it is important to draw attention to the fact that the group is more openly attempting to recruit kenyans in its fight against the governments of kenya and somalia, taking advantage of the growing tensions between religious communities in the peripheral and coastal regions of kenya.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the persecution of christians around the world, in relation to the killing of students in kenya by terror group al-shabaab. the resolution condemns in the strongest terms the deliberate terrorist attack perpetrated by al-shabaab on 2 april 2015 in garissa, in which it assassinated 147 young, innocent university students and injured 79 others; and it condemns forcefully all violations of human rights, especially when people are killed on the basis of their religion, beliefs or ethnic origin. the resolution also expresses grave concern at the abuse of religion by the perpetrators of terrorist acts in several areas of the world, and at the proliferation of episodes of intolerance, repression and violence directed against religious groups, including christians.
in writing. ‒ this resolution condemns the intentional destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites perpetrated by isis in syria and iraq. it calls on vice-president mogherini to take action, in accordance with the appropriate un security council resolution, in order to put an end to the illegal trade in cultural property from syria and iraq, preventing them from being used as a source of financing. the cultural heritage of syria and iraq is part of our common human heritage and we must do all we can to safeguard it. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution as it is of utmost importance that the union takes a firm stand against the destruction of the world’s cultural heritage. the resolution urges the implementation of security checks to prevent cultural goods from syria and iraq being smuggled into the union. i support these measures as they not only aim to protect cultural heritage but also aim to tackle one of isis/da’esh’s sources of revenue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the destruction of cultural sites perpetrated by isis. the resolution strongly condemns the intentional destruction by isis of cultural, archaeological and religious sites in syria and iraq, and calls on the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate action at political level, in accordance with un security council resolution 2199 of 12 february 2015, in order to put an end to the illegal trade in cultural property from the territories of syria and iraq during periods of conflict in those territories, thereby preventing the use of such property as a source of financing.
in writing. ‒ this resolution expresses its grave concern about increasing tendencies towards authoritarian rule in the maldives, the crackdown on political opponents and intimidation of the media and civil society, which could jeopardise gains made in recent years. as a major international player advocating democracy and development, it is europe’s role to assist and support countries like the maldives. that is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution stresses the need for the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and the external action service to promote democracy and the rule of law in the maldives. the level of authoritarianism in the country is of concern and the eu must play a proactive role in tackling human rights abuses. therefore i chose to support the resolution in the interest of the maldives’ transition to a functioning democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the maldives, which calls for an immediate end to violence against peaceful protesters, and for the perpetrators of such violent attacks to be brought to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on albania because the report welcomes the good progress achieved so far and encourages further efforts and tangible results towards albania’s european integration process. it is also positive that the report points out the fact that ensuring political consensus and developing a genuine democratic dialogue are elements of utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution regarding the progress that albania made in 2014. the rapporteur notes that the growing level of political polarisation in albania may prove to be a hurdle in further eu integration efforts. the resolution comments on the need to improve albania’s record of investigations, prosecutions and convictions at all levels, as this will contribute to the country’s efforts to combat organised crime. lastly, the resolution also notes the positive steps that albania has made in relation to religious tolerance, which is crucial for long-term stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on albania’s european integration process. the report welcomes the good progress achieved so far and encourages further efforts and tangible results. it asserts that the opening of accession negotiations with albania will constitute the major incentive for the country to speed up the process. ensuring political consensus and developing a genuine democratic dialogue are elements of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ in view of the advances being made in bosnia and herzegovina, especially on aspects of reform at all levels of governance, on strengthening administrative policy and in relation to a concrete roadmap for a broad and inclusive reform agenda to advance the country on its path towards the eu, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that this is a new opportunity for bosnia and herzegovina to resume the eu reform process and improve the social and economic situation in the country. ensuring a better life for all citizens needs to be the priority for the political class in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it urges the new political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to move away from the divisive nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric of the past and to continue along the path of institutional, economic and social reform that will lead to eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the european union’s renewed approach to bosnia and herzegovina. this is a new opportunity for bosnia and herzegovina to resume the eu reform process and improve the social and economic situation in the country, and it must not be lost. ensuring a better life for each and every citizen needs to be the priority for the bosnia and herzegovina political elites and within the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank annual report showed us that, in 2013, the eib focused more than ever on issues pertaining to employment and social affairs. the eur 9.1 billion spent on promoting skills training and employment opportunities for young people represents a 50% increase on the original spending target. when one considers the staggering youth unemployment europe is facing, one could argue that this is still not enough. on the other hand, when one takes into consideration the projects that focus on micro-financing and sme support, it is clear that we are on track. having been shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank provides finance and expertise for sound and sustainable investment projects which contribute to furthering eu policy objectives. this analysis deals with its 2013 annual report. there is reference to an increase in the group’s financing activities by 37 %. however, there is concern at the current situation of economic stalling in the eu, a significant decline in public and private investment and by the staggering 35 % drop in sme lending between 2008 and 2013. the report underlines that such a decline represents a massive hurdle for a sustainable recovery. the report also points out that national projections demonstrate that nearly half of all member states will not achieve their national targets on education schemes and greenhouse gas reductions by 2020, while employment and poverty reduction trends are even worse. while i voted in favour of this report it is imperative that the eu and member states acknowledge and act upon the given recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it notes that the projects selected by the european investment bank should have a high innovation-based potential and should meet all the necessary criteria. it also stresses the need to take into account the employment potential of the projects selected in those eu countries worst affected by mass unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european investment bank annual report 2013, which puts forward a set of recommendations on the eib’s operational methodology, in terms of how the eib should be ready to play its role under the investment package, how investment needs to target more specifically the backbone of the european economy, namely smes, and how eib investment projects need to be aimed increasingly towards sustainable energy and climate as well as infrastructure investments important for jobs and growth. finally there is a lot of emphasis on the eib becoming more transparent and accountable.
in writing. ‒ despite now being directly involved in the european fund for strategic investments, the european investment bank, under its statute, has a limited horizon for its investment initiatives, which inhibits it from taking the initiative in launching projects rated below aaa. the instruments that can assume this role on a european basis backed by a network of national institutions are deficient. the time has come for an investment bank, funded at both european and national levels, that will be enabled to mobilise risk capital for public and private projects – especially at the cutting edge of technology, with a significant risk component – for start-ups in national economies by smes, inventors and established corporations. considerations of state aid should not be allowed, in this context, to restrict the operations of such a ‘merchant’ banking system. such a system is increasingly required in europe, beyond the horizons of the efsi and the eib, to stimulate entrepreneurship and new productive activity, such as in sustainable energy project: climate-related as well as infrastructure investments are important for jobs and growth. there should be no reservations about public money assuming its part of risk and then of return, as is happening in other segments of the globalised economy.
in writing. ‒ this resolution stresses that in order to tackle the food security challenge in such a discussion we need to continue promoting the following: a strong and sustainable agricultural sector across the eu, a thriving and diversified rural economy, a clean environment, and family farms, supported by a robust, fairer, internationally sustainable and appropriately financed common agricultural policy. as i agree with the general approach to sustainable living highlighted in the resolution i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in light of the detrimental effects of climate change on the global food system, i chose to support this resolution as it urges the commission to give greater support and attention to research on land management and sustainable intensification through more efficient use of nutrients, water and energy. it also calls for more research into improving crop yields without increasing the environmental impact of agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on expo milano 2015. the title themes of feeding the planet – energy for life are crucial and bring together many aspects of eu policy, both internally and externally focused. combating food waste and promoting efficient, environmentally sustainable food production and land use are essential measures to combat poverty and malnutrition in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the recent boko haram attacks and the growing violence in certain regions of the country are forcing persons to flee the country due to the instability in the region. this is deplorable considering that nigeria is the largest economy within the african continent and can help africa’s overall economy to substantially grow. further development in the area can also help to solve the immigration crisis that both continents are facing, at source. only by ensuring stability and security in the region can we also ensure that nigeria addresses the high inequality and poverty rates which can act as a major economic push factor for irregular immigration.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution calls on the newly elected president of nigeria to live up to his pledge to continue the fight against boko haram and defeat the militant group. it also urges religious leaders, both christian and muslim, not only to work together to combat radicalisation but also to work with civil society and public authorities. i applaud the efforts of the military coalition created by nigeria and its neighbours, which has made significant gains against the terrorist group.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a global threat but the global community’s efforts to do more against boko haram in nigeria depended to some degree on the full measure of credibility, accountability and transparency of the elections there. the electoral process was welcomed by international observers and it is now a national, regional and global responsibility to put all existing resources to use to bring an end to boko haram. however, i voted against on the second part of paragraph 15, on sexual and reproductive health.
in writing. ‒ the report outlines that the consultative working party, consisting of the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, agreed that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. codification of agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions is important so as to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it is a technical dossier which codifies the legal texts on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification of texts regarding the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. therefore i voted in favour of this report as codification of european legislation is essential for transparency and citizen involvement in eu decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the duda report on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ this convention on the legal protection of services based on, or consisting of, conditional access, created a common legal framework applicable throughout the eu for combating illicit devices which allow for unauthorised access to television services offered against payment and effectively protecting such services. as the convention would effectively extend the scope of the framework provided by directive 98/84/ec outside of the union and thereby combat threats to protected services, i think that parliament has to give its consent to the conclusion of the convention, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this file is aimed at strengthening directive 98/84/ec on the legal protection of services based on conditional access. this directive created a common legal framework applicable throughout the european union for combating illicit devices which allow for unauthorised access to television services offered against payment and effectively protecting such services. this protection covers both television and radio broadcasting services and transmission by internet. it was therefore necessary to extend the provisions of the 1998 directive and to create a common and effective framework at european level for the protection of these services. the convention effectively extends the scope of the framework provided by directive 98/84/ec outside of the european union and thereby combat threats to protected services, hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as it will lead to the creation of a common and effective framework at european level that will combat illicit devices that hack into conditional access services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the svoboda report in order to give my consent to the european convention on the legal protection of services based on, or consisting of, conditional access.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence does not have a direct or obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ the prosecution in the case in question was initiated a number of years before the member took up his post and has no connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i have thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request as i believe that the european economic and social committee, being one of the main eu institutions, should be consulted on the future report by the committee on constitutional affairs that will deal with improving the functioning of the european union and which will build on the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the requested consultation with the european economic and social committee as civil society involvement is vital to provide legitimacy if any decision is to be made regarding the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request as i believe that the european economic and social committee, being one of the main eu institutions, should be consulted on the future report by the committee on constitutional affairs that will deal with possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set up of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the requested consultation with the european economic and social committee as civil society involvement is vital to provide legitimacy if any decision is to be made regarding the institutional set—up of the union.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union’.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation introduces a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the union. it applies to all published benchmarks that are used to reference a financial instrument traded or admitted to trading on a regulated venue, or a financial contract and benchmarks that measure the performance of an investment fund. the rapporteur has been successful in improving the proportionality of the regulation, and thus i am in favour of the report as adopted by the committee on economic affairs.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the pricing of many financial instruments and financial contracts depends on the accuracy and integrity of such benchmarks. doubts about the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks may undermine market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors, and distort the real economy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the accuracy, robustness and integrity of benchmarks and the benchmark setting process are of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposed regulation to introduce a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the european union. i chose to support the decision to allow the legislation to go on to first reading negotiations with the council.
in writing. ‒ more than 1.5 billion people are still living in poverty with deprivation in health, education and living standards, notably in conflict-affected and fragile states. this is not acceptable, given that sufficient resources exist in the world to progressively end this situation. the eu is called on to set up a regulatory framework that stimulates responsible, transparent and accountable investment which contributes to the development of the private sector in developing countries
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the need for better eu support to developing countries via development aid. the aim of this report is to send a strong signal by calling on the eu and its member states to lead by example. i voted in favour of this report, however i voted against parts of paragraphs 8 and 28 since i am of the view that a financial transaction tax and sexual and reproductive health rights are member state competences.
in writing. ‒ it is unfortunate that an otherwise well-composed report included unacceptable references to sexual health and reproductive rights which may be interpreted as a right to abortion. that is why i could not support this report.
in writing. ‒ ‘financing for development’ is a very important non-legislative report underlining the need for the eu and member states to reaffirm their political leadership and to stick to their commitments regarding official development assistance (oda). as the biggest donor of development aid, the eu has to play a leadership role in the financing for development process. in recent months the situation of migrant smuggling and illegal migration in europe has deteriorated dramatically. therefore, the eu must continue to make sure that development aid is more effective and better coordinated. hence, i have voted in favour of the report. nevertheless, there were a few provisions on sexual and reproductive health and rights and on financial transaction taxes which i didn’t support.
in writing. ‒ 8% to 12% of patients in eu hospitals suffer adverse events, such as healthcare-related adverse events and healthcare-associated infections (hais), medication-related events and complications arising during or after surgical operations. this results in 37 000 deaths a year and places a heavy burden on limited health service budgets. almost half of such events could be avoided. the report suggests ways to improve patient safety, calling for the responsible use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine, the responsible use of antibiotics, using today’s treatments more responsibly and promoting innovation. i have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare in europe. i support the amendments to encourage the development of new antibiotic drugs as i believe that this will have a positive impact and improve patient safety by fighting antimicrobial resistance and reduce the adverse impact of healthcare-associated infections caused by these organisms and will also reinforce measures where antibiotic use is carefully controlled in both human and animal diseases under one direction. this is particularly important in view of the mounting evidence that indicates that the link between antimicrobial resistance in animals and antimicrobial resistance in man is real and may possibly be on the increase.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it urges member states to come together to define minimum patient safety standards and indicators for safety and quality of healthcare at eu level. it also calls on the commission and member states to work with all stakeholders to develop a multi-level, comprehensive and sustainable eu strategy for patient safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-legislative report evaluating how well the member states have implemented the last council recommended measures to be taken to improve patient safety, in particular regarding the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections. the eu must take action on different levels to greatly reduce healthcare-related infections which are putting an enormous strain on healthcare systems. therefore, i fully agree with investing adequate resources in patient safety.
in writing. ‒ green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu, and is estimated to grow considerably in the coming years. smes and industry associations currently face problems related to financing, research and development and innovation, acquiring the right knowledge and the regulatory framework in place. the report underlines the diversity of smes in the eu and advises against one-size-fits-all models. the report also calls for the creation of a more entrepreneurial mind—set, strengthening of the entrepreneurial culture in the eu, developing open and innovation—friendly rules which alleviate regulatory burdens on smes, establishing more diverse access to finance and creating more knowledge sharing opportunities. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that green economy sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu. i am a promoter of alternative sources of funding for companies such as venture capital, business angels and crowd funding. the most important items here are cross-sectoral collaborations, the set-up of informal networks and the invaluable role that sector federations can and should play in this regard. the potential of female entrepreneurship and the need to create a more entrepreneurial mind-set should not be undermined and should be given paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it emphasises the need for the european union to support smes in remaining up to date with the ever-developing world of green technology and financing opportunities. smes do not have the same level of access to knowledge-networks as large businesses and also struggle to reach out to potential investors and clients. it also stresses the need to avoid a one-size-fits-all approach to finance, as this would have a detrimental effect on smes involved in the green economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the measures adopted in this non-legislative report that looks into different ways of exploiting the potential for green growth in response to the commission communication on the green action plan for growth and focuses on financing opportunities, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, the circular economy and industrial synergies.
we are looking at this directive purely in terms of giving women more weeks of maternity leave as a gift. this aspect often affects the socioeconomic realities and principles of the member states and the union itself. we cannot talk about this directive and forget the following: demographic data clearly show that europe's population is ageing and that the birth rate is low. there are difficulties in attracting women into employment or keeping them in employment when they reach childbearing age. we constantly say that we believe that women are equal social partners and contributors to the political, social and economic world. we declare that we are all in favour of gender equality. we declare that we want good working conditions including being able to enjoy a work-life balance. then we cannot agree on public policy to address these realities. it is true that the commission's proposal to withdraw this dossier does not sound very sweet, even in the light of the deadlock in the council. but we cannot stop there and forget principles. proposals for other measures with the same objective are needed, so to speak, from the door to the window.
member of the commission i have listened carefully to all your comments. i can see that you are right to be very ambitious and i can tell you that you will find a partner in the commission. i would like to reassure you that we are fully committed to an inclusive europe without barriers and without discrimination. we will therefore continue to work to implement the commitments we have also undertaken by acceding to the un convention. i would like to repeat my call to those countries which still see barriers to ratification of accession to the convention to do so and to remove those barriers. we will continue to work to persuade the member states to remove the barriers in the council so that the proposal containing a general anti-discrimination regulation can be finally adopted. i would like to call for dialogue with the united nations to be used as a welcome opportunity. it is an opportunity, because this dialogue allows us to critically examine the actions of recent years, but also because it gives us an opportunity to discuss the results achieved and the input that will come and will still come from the european parliament, the representatives of people with disabilities and civil society. these are all matters which are useful in clarifying priorities, including our disability strategy. i would like to say again, and very emphatically, that i welcome the initiative of parliament to provide valuable input, including for the dialogue with the united nations itself, through the hearing on 12 may, through this debate and through the resolution on which i suspect you will vote tomorrow. i can assure you that i have asked my department to keep in close contact with parliament and with the other members of the european framework in preparing the responses to the united nations. you have said yourself, honourable members, that there are some 80 million people with disabilities today. the ageing of the population is another reason why this trend is increasing. it is therefore all the more important for our society and our economy that everyday products and also services, for example our transport systems and information and communication technologies, are accessible to everyone. that is why we are working hard on a european accessibility act. some of you have insisted that we continue to do so. i'm gonna take that call as your endorsement of the work we're doing. the crisis has indeed hit hard, especially among vulnerable groups. some of you have also pointed this out. i would also point out that we have just completed the european semester, that is to say that the commission has put forward the country-specific recommendations which the council has yet to adopt. through this semester, supported by our funds, we are encouraging member states to modernise their social security systems. we want the european union to be inclusive and empowering welfare states that enable people to participate in the labour market and in society. that is a line which we have also maintained in our proposal for the employment guidelines. you have rightly pointed out that attention must be paid to people with disabilities in all policy areas. that is certainly the case for the areas under my jurisdiction: combating unemployment, human mobility and skills development. these too must be approached from the perspective of people with disabilities. that is what we are going to do. i look forward to continuing to work with the recently established parliamentary bodies, the task force and also the intergroup working group on disabled people. finally, you can count on me to keep you informed of the outcome of the dialogue with the united nations. i look forward to future discussions, including on the disability strategy, and i thank you once again for this useful debate, which has put the issue back at the top of the agenda.
in writing.– there are 80 million persons who live with a so called ‘disability’ within the european union. we ignorantly and sometimes even arrogantly label them ‘disabled’, disempower and ultimately disrespect them simply because we do not understand what it means to live with different abilities than the ones that we were born with. persons with different abilities deserve the same treatment and opportunities as anyone else. in an age where it is more than evident that everyone can contribute to our societies in some way, we must truly recognize our duty to change our current policies. ensuring basic rights are adhered to, and assisting persons with disabilities in the field of access to employment can ensure an independent living module to all those who seek it. this, combined with a move from institutionalisation to community—based care, a good educational basis for children with disabilities – both physical and intellectual – based on the concept of ‘different abilities’ rather than ‘disabilities’ can help us fight the social stigma that persons with a disability still face in this day and age. these measures need to be implemented and monitored as we must ensure that member states are living up to their obligations.
i would like to start today by thanking the commission for its courage in putting forward a new immigration policy. this is the most ambitious policy we have ever had and a big step forward. finally, we have the recognition that immigration is a european challenge that requires a common european response, in which each member state acts in solidarity. we particularly welcome the proposal on the relocation and fair distribution between member states of individuals enjoying international protection. i look forward to the legislation on this. the challenge now is to ensure that proposals translate from paper to concrete action by member states. i understand that there are states which are not yet convinced, but we are not talking about charity here. no member state may exempt itself from its responsibility on the ground that it is not geographically situated in the mediterranean. the agreement by member states on monday on the naval operation to tackle traffickers is also a step forward. this will reduce human trafficking and also mean more assets at sea leading to more lives being saved. at the same time we cannot allow this mission to be distracted from the focus on the humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean. any operation must go hand in hand with other initiatives to ensure that there is action that touches on every aspect of this issue. if member states are able to agree on military action there is no excuse for not agreeing that everyone should bear part of the burden to ensure a fair sharing of responsibility. immigration is a reality. we need to implement permanent and long-term measures. we must look beyond our political mandate with the deadline it has. we must, and i conclude, take the decisions that may be difficult but are necessary and i hope that the prime ministers will have the courage to do the same.
the agenda presented by the european commission is a step forward, considering that there is no common european policy for such an important reality. but we must see that what is written on paper begins to be fulfilled in reality. and here i turn to the governments of the member states of the european union. because the latest statements we have seen from certain leaders who are not ready to accept relocation and resettlement quotas only show that we have countries comfortable leaving countries like malta, italy and greece to carry the burden alone. the discussion should not be whether this process is done or not, but how the burden will be shared, the so-called distribution key. this attitude shows that there is no commitment to address the situation. we have governments that are comfortable letting the rich carry the burden alone. and lastly, an appeal to the european commission. if we do not have a review of the dublin regulations we will be letting the responsibility-sharing continue to do so.
eighteen hundred people died that year alone. thousands have crossed the mediterranean, thousands illegally and more than two hundred thousand are in libya waiting to cross and we are still seeing opposition from some member states to the introduction of a fair quota system. we welcome the commission's agenda which presents perfectly targeted points and concrete measures which bring to life for the first time words such as mobilisation and financial aid. but a european solution based on solidarity is still lacking. we particularly welcome the commission's proposal to introduce quotas that bind member states and help to ease the burden on countries on europe's periphery such as italy and malta. but i believe that the commission needs to take another step and commit itself to a revision of the dublin regulation without which it will not be possible to achieve concrete results. these are only short-term solutions. the long-term solution is to give these immigrants a future in their own country. in a sense through investment in the economy, health and education. we must start today before tomorrow. only then can the hemorrhage of people who (speech was interrupted by the president as time was running out)
in writing.– europe is finally proposing to deal with resettlement issues for irregular migrants, with proper search-and-rescue arrangements, and with the containment of smuggler gangs. it is to be hoped that european political actors will place solidarity on their political agenda and embrace a fairer allocation system. other priorities need to be kept in mind. some migrants are asylum-seekers. a resolution of the problem that caused them to leave home frequently requires military action by the international community which is most often outside the euʼs remit. irregular migrants are also people who aspire to improve their economic situation as they have limited to zero opportunities back home. past development aid failed to improve sufficiently the economic conditions in sub-saharan africa. we need to understand why this has happened and to convert that understanding into an action programme committed to generating economic growth and jobs. we urgently need a european policy on legal migration. for while the inflows of irregular migrants cause concern, some member states actually need migrants to replenish their labour force. it is a truism that problems caused by irregular mass migration can only be solved conclusively by improvements that give grounds for hope, in the countries from which migrants originate.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the proposed dates for part-sessions and finalise the days set for plenary duties next year.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve parliament’s calendar for 2016.
in writing. ‒ parliament must give its approval for new member states to be recognised as signatories of the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdca) between the european community and its member states and the republic of south africa. i have thus voted in favour of this technical measure to take into account croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the proposed council decision aims to approve the additional protocol to the eu south africa tdca taking into account croatia’s accession to the eu. i voted in favour of this technical adjustment to take note of croatia’s accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported this technical measure, as parliament must give its consent before new member states can be recognised by signatories of the trade, development and cooperation agreement. in this case, parliament had to give its consent on the agreement being amended to take into account the treaty of accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed council decision which aims to approve the additional protocol to the eu south africa tdca taking account of croatia’s accession to the eu, on behalf of the union and its member states, and i welcome the accession of croatia, as a new member of the eu, to this important trade and development cooperation relationship.
in writing. ‒ the revision of directive 2005/60/ec was necessary to strengthen the internal market and to support the fight against terrorism. the main points of the second reading agreement concern the beneficial ownership registers: member states will have to ensure that central registers, commercial registers or company registers within their territory contain information about beneficial owners that is accessible by competent authorities, obliged entities and the wider public, provided that they can demonstrate a legitimate interest. further provisions have been agreed to ensure that eu data protection requirements are applied. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the commission’s more robust anti-money laundering measures as it is important that the union support intelligence forces and investigative task forces in their efforts to combat illicit financial transactions. the new measures will respect the eu data protection requirements but increase the level of transparency amongst companies and the business community.
in writing. ‒ i approved the new anti-money laundering directive which aims to step up the fight against tax crimes and terrorist financing. the new rules include the obligation for member states to keep a central register of information on who owns companies and other legal entities. new anti-money laundering rules will help fight tax crime and terrorist financing by making it easier to trace transfers of funds and sources of wealth.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing when transferring funds, and it strengthens certain aspects of traceability of payments. the proposal is rather technical in its nature but i support the council’s position for the second reading which is identical to the agreed text in the trilogues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as it is important that the union support intelligence forces and investigative task forces in their efforts to track illicit financial transactions. these measures are intended to strengthen the internal market through an increased level of transparency and increase the traceability of payments to curb money laundering and track terrorist networks.
in writing. ‒ i approved a ‘transfers of funds’ regulation, which aims to improve the traceability of payers and payees and their assets. the regulation lays down rules for payment service providers to send information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain for the purposes of prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. a coordinated response from law enforcement bodies in the member states and a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers is essential to combat money-laundering, which costs many billions annually.
in writing. ‒ the ep adopted the report at first reading in february 2014. the proposed regulation was aimed at making cross-border insolvency proceedings more efficient and effective with a view to ensuring smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience in economic crises. the ep proposed a more flexible approach with the main focus of the negotiations on jurisdiction and preferential rights of the employees. an early second reading agreement was reached after the trilogues. the main goals of the counteracting of forum shopping has been achieved, and thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report on the updated regulation on insolvency as it will streamline cross-border insolvency proceedings amongst member states. it is important to stress that it will not change national legislation but takes into account the changes that have occurred at the national level since 2002.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of council regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 establishing a european framework for cross-border insolvency proceedings, which determines which member state has jurisdiction for opening insolvency proceedings, establishes uniform rules on applicable law and provides for the recognition and enforcement of insolvency-related decisions as well as for the coordination of main and secondary insolvency.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this proposal is to help reduce the financing of armed groups and security forces through mineral proceeds in conflict-affected and high-risk areas by supporting and further promoting responsible sourcing practices of eu companies in relation to tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold originating from such areas. the proposal builds on existing international due diligence frameworks and principles. the eu is a major importer of these minerals and metals, and thus this regulation is likely to have an important impact on trade flows. as some important elements of the proposal which could have guaranteed the system being voluntary and concentrate on the upstream process have been rejected, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of excluding conflict minerals from the eu market, both as raw materials and as manufactured products. i am in favour of a legally binding scheme to ensure traceability of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold and to make sure that products sold in the eu should never fuel armed militias or foster human rights violations in conflict areas. this vote proves that the european union cares about human rights and human dignity beyond empty declarations.
in writing. ‒ while i voted not to postpone the decision, i am pleased that the european parliament has agreed on robust measures that seek to prevent the trading of commodities that finance armed conflict.
in writing. ‒ i support strengthening the rules on companies importing minerals such as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which must be certified by the eu to help ensure the income flowing to the producers does not fuel conflicts and human rights abuses. mineral importers, smelters and refineries, but also manufacturers of consumer products (mobile phones, tablets, washing machines) should ensure that revenues from the minerals they use are not funding conflicts. we must stay true to our goals of solidarity and development.
in writing. ‒ annex iii of the proposal lists a derogation for ‘cadmium in colour converting for use in solid state illumination or display systems’, which is an application for a new exemption with a different formulation and not a renewal of an existing exemption as delegated act. for this reason, the application was acceptable for the parliament and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that extending an existing derogation granted to cadmium is bad for the environment and for public health. in my opinion it could also send a wrong signal to industry which may, as a consequence, consider discontinuing investment in innovation and research into cadmium-free alternatives. the motion for a resolution objects to the proposed delegated act that extends the life of cadmium in television displays until june 2018 and thus i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and object to the commission’s delegated regulation as i support the conclusions of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission delegated directive ../…/eu amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am opposed to the commissionʼs proposed delegated act due to the fact that the following-up of data relating to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin should ensure both transparency and knowledge as regards the evolution of the market, while information on the matter is also extremely useful when it comes to anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and object to the commission’s delegated regulation as i support the conclusions of the committee on agricultural and rural development.
in writing. ‒ i approved the commission delegated regulation (eu) no …/.. amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 introducing certain detailed rules for applying council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 laying down specific measures concerning the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin.
in writing. ‒ we seem to be focusing on this directive merely in terms of giving women more weeks as maternity leave. this focus often makes us forget the socio-economic realities of member states. we cannot allow ourselves to forget demographic data which clearly indicates that europe is an ageing population, has difficulties in attracting women to employment, and retaining women in employment once they are of child-bearing age. we continuously state that we believe that women are equal partners and contributors in the political, social and economic sector and we are all in favour of gender equality. it is true that the commission’s proposal to withdraw this dossier does not at first sound very attractive, but it is a pragmatic way of addressing a deadlock. yet we cannot forget the principles we have declared to adhere to nor the socio-economic realities we face, and so the withdrawal of this dossier should be accompanied by other measures which have the same purpose or end. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of having better maternity and paternity leave. it was high time to call on the commission to make a new legislative proposal in order to unblock the discussions on the maternity leave directive and to start negotiations under the luxembourg presidency. now the european commission must present a new legislative text on maternity leave if it decides to withdraw the current proposal on the table.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it is important that the negotiations on the maternity leave directive between member states at council are resumed.
in writing. ‒ every family needs sufficient time together at the moment of birth, therefore finding a balance between family life and work is necessary to reach a satisfactory situation for every mother, father and child, as well as for workers and for employers. i therefore supported the resolution calling on eu countries to resume negotiations on maternity leave in order to improve the working time arrangements for mothers across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. we are an inclusive society which has the responsibility and duty to treat all its citizens equally and with dignity. persons with different abilities deserve the same treatment and opportunities as anyone else. empowering persons with disabilities in the field of access to employment can ensure an independent living module to all those who seek it. this combined with a move from institutionalisation to community-based care, a good educational basis for children with disabilities, both physical and intellectual, based on the concept of ʽdifferent abilitiesʼ rather than ʽdis-abilitiesʼ can help us fight the social stigma that persons with a disability still face in todayʼs day and age.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution as i fully support the recommendation for eu funds to be used to promote accessibility and e-accessibility for persons with disabilities. i also support the importance the resolution gives to the need for the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act. it is crucial that persons with disabilities are involved throughout the legislative cycle of any such act.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated 80 million people in the european union have a disability and yet persons with disabilities still face discrimination and barriers to exercising their rights on an equal basis with others. i fully support the rights of people with disabilities, who as full citizens, have equal rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living and full participation in society. therefore, i have co-signed and voted in favour of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a highly dangerous bacterium of immediate threat to production, especially in southern europe. the spread of xylella fastidiosa bacteria in italy has caused severe damage to olive trees. xylella has many hosts and could attack other plants, including almond, peach and citrus trees, ornamental plants and vineyards. the resolution calls for effective measures to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa bacteria beyond italy and compensate growers, and suggests stepping up and promoting increased international networking. i have thus voted in favour as further spread of xylella fastidiosa could lead to unprecedented and devastating losses, with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of having more means to ensure the detection of harmful organisms at points of entry in the eu and for the commission to take targeted measures against xylella fastidiosa. i am in favour of the commission taking effective measures to avoid the spread within the eu, in particular by targeting the crops most at risk. we need preventive measures and real help should be given to those who are most affected.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this joint motion for a resolution as it urges the commission to also implement strong measures to prevent xylella fastidiosa from entering the eu from third countries. the resolution also stresses the need for greater screening and scanning methods to be utilised to detect harmful organisms at points of entry into the union.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the resolution on measures to prevent the spread of the xylella fastidiosa bacterium damaging olive trees. the resolution is calling for eu import restrictions on plants from affected areas in third countries, agrees that growers be compensated for their losses, and suggests stepping up funding for research to combat the bacterium, which may attack other plants.
madam president, the good news is that the indicators of recovery have been reinforced, even if prudently. within this context, questions of economic governance have become vital, especially in the eurozone. we need effective governance mechanisms to promote and enhance the emerging conditions of recovery. those introduced these past years to buttress the eurozone need simplification and democratic accountability; beyond that, though, some argue that further structural deepening is needed to compensate in part for deficiencies in the eurozone’s design. now, they claim, is the right time to carry out these partial changes. however, the fundamental problem facing the eurozone beyond economic stagnation is the growing economic divergences between regions and national economies. parts of the eurozone system are benefiting from an internal under-valuation. this allows them to maximise sales of their output within the zone. they thereby achieve better scale economies for their output, which helps them penetrate better in non-eurozone markets. meanwhile, other parts of the euro system are internally overvalued, which makes them uncompetitive both within and outside the eurozone. to correct this, they can only carry out a painful internal devaluation, creating huge problems without guaranteeing success. partial deepening of the eurozone’s governance structures, on the basis of the existing structural imbalance, leads only to increased… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the security environment of the eu and of its eastern and southern neighbourhoods are increasingly unstable. at the same time, national defence budgets have been reduced due to the effects of the 2008 economic and financial crisis and the reductions have taken place without coordination between the member states, thus jeopardising the union’s strategic autonomy. the eu has a vital interest in a secure, open and clean maritime environment that allows the free passage of goods and people, so an implementation of the common security and defence policy is necessary, and thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe in strengthening the european unionʼs common security and defence policy. however my vote is subject to the reservation that where security cooperation and joint action by the eu as a whole in collaboration with nato is contemplated, i voted against. as long as it is not clear that such references cover neutral states that are also members of the eu or unless such neutral member states do not autonomously decide to be associated, i am not in agreement with these parts. as regards defence spending and nato defence spending, i believe that this is the prerogative of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for increased in-depth analysis and planning when the union undertakes civilian and military missions as part of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ with the high level of instability at the eastern and southern eu borders, the eu should take responsibility for security and defence by using the common security and defence policy tools more effectively so as to counter terrorism, fight organised crime, strengthen cyber—defence and cope with migration. therefore, i voted in favour of the final report on the eu’s common security and defence policy (csdp), but did not support certain paragraphs calling for the exact defence spending each state should make, because i think that the level of defence spending is a state prerogative.
in writing. ‒ i wish to explain that my vote in favour of this report is conditioned by the following observation: where in this text, security cooperation and joint action by the eu as a whole, in collaboration or in tandem with nato, is contemplated and endorsed, i am not in agreement for so long as it is clear that such references do not include or cover neutral states that are members of the eu, unless these autonomously decide to be so associated, and this not least with particular reference to malta, which as a neutral country, is specifically barred by its constitution from participating in the programmes of a military alliance.
in writing. ‒ delegating the budget to the civilian operations commander (who forms part of the european external action service) would remove the oversight that the council currently has over the common foreign and security policy budget. the council politically prioritises the use of this budget through the political and security committee, and this is effected through the budgetary scrutiny and oversight mandate of foreign relations counsellors. a transfer of any part of this budget line would constitute a lessening of the council’s role. this is a fundamental point about budgetary control and scrutiny. from the other side, malta is more in favour of an inclusive collective approach to keep the common security and defence policy a single policy without creating a two-tier european action. regarding these issues i abstained, but on the report as a whole i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with the following reservation: i am more in favour of an inclusive collection approach to keep csdp a single policy without creating a two-tier european action.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it highlights the need for increased democratic scrutiny over the way that the budget for different common security and defence policy missions and operations is allocated. it is important that the european parliament be involved in these decisions to increase the transparency and accountability of these missions.
in writing. ‒ with the level of instability at eu borders, the eu should take responsibility for security and defence by using the common security and defence policy tools more effectively so as to counter terrorism, fight organised crime, strengthen cyber-defence and cope with migration. the funding of eu civilian missions and military operations must be adapted to new needs, and the csdp needs proper funding. therefore, i voted in favour of the final resolution by eduard kukan (epp, sk) and indrek tarand (greens/efa, et), even though i do not support some of the paragraphs in the text, and in particular the one on budgetary control and scrutiny, regarding the cfsp.
in writing. ‒ i wish to explain that i abstained on the final vote of this report due to the following: where in this text, security cooperation and joint action by the eu as a whole, in collaboration or in tandem with nato, is contemplated and endorsed, i am not in agreement, for so long as it is clear that such references do not include or cover neutral states that are members of the eu, unless these autonomously decide to be so associated, and this not least with particular reference to malta, which as a neutral country, is specifically barred by its constitution from participating in the programmes of a military alliance.
in writing. ‒ this report raises concerns over the spread of armed conflict in the eu’s immediate neighbourhood as well as the threat of terrorist attacks inside and outside the union. the reduced potential for member states to effectively respond to these threats because of the decline in funding allocated to defence and security is of concern. the report suggests that a competitive and modern european industrial defence strategy may aid in increasing the union’s defence capabilities and benefit related economic sectors. i therefore chose to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on security and defence capabilities in europe, which calls on the european commission and member states to do more to create a genuine eu defence market. i agree with the rapporteur that an efficient single market, based on common rules, is vital for the development of a competitive european defence technological and industrial base, which in turn is crucial to secure the capabilities needed for the security of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ my vote on this resolution is subject to the reservation below: where in this text, security cooperation and joint action by the eu as a whole, in collaboration or in tandem with nato, is contemplated and endorsed, i am not in agreement, for so long as it is clear that such references do not include or cover neutral states that are members of the eu, unless these autonomously decide to be so associated, and this not least with particular reference to malta, which as a neutral country, is specifically barred by its constitution from participating in the programmes of a military alliance.
i will speak on a specific subject because in my opinion it is positive that the g7 summit's agenda is specifically about the marine environment and also the need to clean our seas of plastic waste and this is an important subject in particular for those states that are near the sea. it is estimated, to give you an idea, that there are more than five trillion pieces of plastic in the sea weighing two hundred and sixty-nine thousand tons. this amount has recently been described as equivalent to two-litre bottles stacked from here to the moon and back twice. plastics, particularly microplastics, are a direct threat to humans as they can also end up in our food. we therefore urgently need an effective policy to reduce plastic waste from our seas alongside international guidelines to protect our seas which are also a source of sustainable development. the united nations also recently called for a circular economy based on recycling as the most effective means to reduce the amount of plastic and microplastics accumulating in the sea. we need a policy that really looks at the marine environment. we need to strengthen our competitiveness and raise our standard of living. and we do our best to achieve these two goals together because they are not contradictory. we can have economic growth and invest in projects that improve the environment around us. it is our duty to preserve the quality of the seas that surround us for present and future generations. and so we need strategies that attract consensus at national, european and international level. i am therefore looking forward to the g7 summit in particular to positive conclusions on this subject.
in writing.– as globalisation accelerates, the widening of economic divergence between regions in some of the large trading blocs is being overlooked. meanwhile, the financial system remains predominant over all other economic sectors, because it serves to run and monitor globalisation. it is allocated resources and rewards proportionately far above its contribution to real value added. wealth and decision-making influence are again concentrated within a very narrow band of individuals and institutions. global and regional outcomes are assessed according to macrofinancial benchmarks that fail to capture the growing divergences, or minimise their importance. yet such divergences are provoking interregional, interethnic and intergenerational injustices. economically, they are root causes of the stagnation that undermines the growth-potential of regions in the developed and developing worlds. all these tendencies are already contributing to destabilisation. they might not appear to offer material for the agenda at meetings of leaders from the world’s largest economies, so they have been taken over by extremist and so-called populist forces. globalisation needs to be managed. it should not happen all by itself, as if it were a force of nature. the target should be the gated development of globalisation. this should be an item on the g7 agenda.
in writing. – i chose to support parliament’s amendments to the commission proposal on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables and milk in educational establishments. it is important that the two programmes currently covered by this scheme continue to function, as the union should play a role in combating the decline in young people’s consumption of fruit and vegetables and milk products.
in writing. ‒ i backed the commission proposals for the eu’s merged fruit and milk scheme in schools, as i think that it will promote healthier eating habits among young people. the foundation of good health for our children is a healthy and balanced diet. providing fruit, vegetables and milk at school will also educate children about healthy eating habits from a very young age.
in writing.– we are facing a situation that results from a build-up of mistrust and an extended powerplay that have gone out of control. one major reason for this is that all sides involved have not been acting in good faith. ukraine, where complex and longstanding jealousies between communities have festered for too long, is racked by civil war. it has become the testing ground for a confrontation between the eu’s soft power and russia’s boots on the ground. it is the ukrainian people who have suffered most because of the crisis. i cannot have confidence in the version of one side or the other regarding the ukrainian crisis, nor in the proposals that they are making regarding the future organisation of the european space. a resolution of the crisis can only emerge when there is a transparent description of the legitimate aspirations of all sides involved, especially including the ukrainian communities of east and west; agreement across the board to respect such legitimate aspirations; and then agreement regarding a long term plan under international law, to give them satisfaction. this should take into full account the historical realities and contemporary interdependencies that define the european space.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector is an important element in the eu’s economy. it represents the livelihood of a number of its citizens and needs to be supported. by voting in favour of this report i have agreed to the establishment of a crisis reserve in case of a major crisis in the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report establishing the adjustment rate by which direct payments to farmers under support schemes shall be reduced for the current calendar year. however, it remains imperative that farmers who face basic challenges such as the size of their land as well as challenges related to their capacity are assisted.
in writing. ‒ this vote is a procedural angle to a mechanism which is there to support the agricultural sector in the most trying of times. as i wholeheartedly support such mechanisms to support and preserve such an important industry, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it deals with technical matters concerning the application for support for those in the agricultural sector who face a major crisis. the ultimate goal is to apply a financial discipline mechanism on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on the adjustment rate for direct payments, which will set the rate of financial discipline for 2015 as foreseen under the horizontal regulation of the cap in order to set up the agricultural crisis reserve.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this report as it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity with regard to certain rights, particularly on ethical or family law issues, such as abortion. on the other hand, i fully agree and concur on a number of important issues raised in the report, such as measures to address violence against women, to find new measures of reconciling family life and work and measures seeking equal access and participation in political and social life. i fully agree that these measures should be included in the eu’s new strategy for equality between men and women and be effectuated without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as tabled by the committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality since this does not respect the principle of subsidiarity on issues related to abortion. it calls upon the commission to introduce sexual health and reproductive rights including abortion within its work programme. this clearly runs counter to subsidiarity. the report does however raise important issues such as measures to address violence against women, to find new measures for reconciling family life and work, measures seeking equal access and participation in political and social life, and also to create incentives for competent training in the critical use of the media to encourage the questioning of stereotypes. these are measures which have been spoken of repeatedly in the past and which really deserve more effective action without further delay.
in writing. ‒ this report is aimed at addressing the fact that by the end of this year, the commission's strategy for equality between women and men will come to an end. aside from addressing key instances which can further contribute to gender equality, such as the stronger policies to combat gender violence, the introduction of paternity leave and the backing of strong directives such as the women on boards directive, the report also deals with stronger rights for lgbti persons, with a particular reference to lgbti bullying in schools and preferred gender. the report calls for more opportunities for people needing ivf treatment and gives a strong message towards countering discrimination – thus i voted in favour of this report as a whole although, regretfully, the report also included references to sexual and reproductive health rights and abortion – as i have done in similar reports.
in writing. ‒ while this report contained amendments aimed at ending discrimination based on gender identity and protecting the rights of the lgbti community, the final version of the report contained unacceptable references to the right to abortion in member states. i could therefore not support the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which calls for a new separate strategy on gender equality and women’s rights in the european union. however, i have voted against the paragraphs calling on member states to implement measures on abortion, sexual and reproductive rights. the eu has no competences on abortion policy at national level and can therefore not interfere in member states’ policies in this area, which we should fully respect.
in writing. ‒ i believe and agree with the elements set out in this report in response to the review of the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. whilst the approach used by the commission is valued by the different stakeholders, it identifies positively the need to encourage research and innovation, the challenge of access to medicine, and the environmental challenge as some of the important issues for the present and the future. i fully support the view that any initiatives concerning external policy are intrinsically linked to internal policies, and therefore the eu should carefully reflect on internal improvements of its intellectual property rules in the effort to improve the standard protection and enforcement of ipr globally.
in writing. ‒ europeʼs creative sector not only fosters economic growth but also promotes european diversity and culture. protection of intellectual property rights within the european union is well regulated even if it deserves better implementation within the member states for the creators to effectively and fully benefit from this protection in such a way that provides users with fair access. yet, protection of intellectual property rights deserves an equally effective enforcement system which needs to consider non-eu trading partners as a relevant and important stakeholder. a solid enforcement system addressing counterfeit is equally beneficial to creators and consumers. basic common goods are also subject to counterfeit and can pose health risks to consumers. the interests of creators as well as consumers therefore deserve the best of protection. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following parliament’s rejection of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) in 2012, the commission took time to reflect on how to proceed in the area of intellectual property rights (ipr) protection and enforcement. the approach taken in acta, mixing hard goods with internet supervision, was deplorable, however ipr enforcement must be taken seriously, given the threats that infringements pose to eu creative industry, jobs and growth. this report welcomes the commission proposal to review the strategy for the protection and enforcement of ipr in third countries and recognises that the approach used by the commission is valued by the various stakeholders. as this report aims to protect the hard work of europeans in third countries, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it encourages member states to work together to formulate harmonised internal policies on intellectual property rights (ipr). it also stresses the need to keep the public well informed through transparent debates on matters concerning ipr and the enforcement of the ipr laws and regulation. it is encouraging to see the commission living up to its promise to give this issue high priority in meetings at international level. it is essential that ipr is given the importance it deserves, as criminal gangs are becoming increasingly involved in schemes related to ipr infringements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the report on intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries, which aims to review the strategy for the protection and enforcement of ipr in third countries and recognises that the approach used by the commission is valued by the different stakeholders. it also underlines the fact that any initiative concerning external ipr enforcement should carefully reflect internal eu development of intellectual property rules
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights (iprs) are a key driver for growth and innovation, and businesses relay on the protection of iprs. i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the parameters set forward in this report in order for adequate protection against counterfeiting on a commercial scale to be established. in its communication the commission presented a 10 point action plan on the enforcement of iprs, notably on the fight against commercial infringements of iprs. it proposes new enforcement rules and develops issues such as assistance to smes, raising the awareness of consumers, employees and clients, and ensuring the integrity of supply chains.
in writing. ‒ the ability to create and innovate is fundamentally important, enabling stakeholders to be effective contributors to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity – elements which constantly assist our economies to face challenges. intellectual property rights are essential if we are to continue to promote creativity and innovation, and the enforcement of such rights is necessary not only to protect creators but also to ensure that consumers are protected from fraud. the measures reflected in this report will continue to make enforcement more effective, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report comes as a response to the commission communication regarding a future eu action plan for intellectual property rights (ipr) enforcement. it focuses mostly on supporting smes in enforcing their intellectual property rights, reducing administrative burdens, developing mechanisms for countering infringements, involving all stakeholders, and international cooperation. the report sets out to protect the work of individuals in developing methods and practices which are unique, and i believe that such efforts need to be protected, as they enrich and improve europe’s economic performance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it highlights the fact that proper enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) is crucial for the functioning of the single market and also a driving force for job creation and job security. an eu action plan on ipr will support creativity and innovation and aid in the commission’s push for increased european competitiveness in the global economy. both this report and the action plan also stress the importance of enabling smes to protect their intellectual property.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on intellectual property rights: an eu action plan, which took a general approach to the action plan and focused mostly on supporting smes in enforcing their intellectual property rights and lowering administrative burdens, developing mechanisms for countering infringements, involving all stakeholders, and international cooperation.
on behalf of the s&d group. other it is good to move away from the premise that some people think that climate change is simply a matter that will resolve itself without our doing anything. but what we see happening around us today testifies to something quite different. and let us be clear, we cannot just think that because we are not in a situation where individual citizens' choices alone will make any difference. we need decisive action from governments and also from industries in all countries. and this is a universal problem, a problem of all of us, and if we don't pull one string, everyone will suffer. indeed, in the short term, climate change may even be a major factor in moving people from one continent to another. the worst hit are the small developing countries, they contribute little to emissions but unfortunately they bear a very heavy burden. all parties, including member states, should ratify the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and in december the european union should be at the forefront of the paris negotiations to reach an international agreement that really makes a difference. and here is my appeal to you commissioner because you will also be leading in these negotiations, but let us also be clear because the leaders of the member states have an opportunity to be courageous and tackle, now, today before tomorrow, this environmental challenge.
european energy security is one challenge in the framework of the energy union which should lead to greater security, sustainability and even competitiveness. but what does this mean in concrete terms for our consumers? i come from malta, a country with an isolated system and so i understand the importance of no country being cut off, [and] being dependent on one energy source with all the consequences that such a situation can bring. we need to look at a secure system that has at its heart the interest of consumers, of those families who pay their electricity and gas bills, of those women and men who in many countries across the european union are living in what is called energy poverty because they do not have the finances necessary to heat or cool their homes. i have experienced how cheaper bills can lead to a better quality of life and even economic growth. and in this framework too we must keep in mind the protection of the environment, the quality of the air we live in and the reduction of pollution as a priority. we need to work harder to have an effective scheme to reduce pollution while making sure we safeguard competitiveness. and above all we need to be much more ambitious, investing more in research and innovation to develop more technologies that can generate cleaner energy. this is a challenge we all share. an opportunity that can offer greater security to all the countries of the european union, a better life for our citizens and a better environment for us and our children. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. what you have already said, you have also reaffirmed in my speech; the need to strike a balance. because it is useless to look at one thing if it then has other consequences. and that's what we're talking about, and that's what it takes; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's emissions trading scheme is not a one-size-fits-all scheme. but it is also worth remembering that we have industries that are today pushing for even a realistic carbon price, so that if yes, this situation does not materialize.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level. the kyoto protocol has made a crucial contribution in global efforts to tackle climate change. i believe that it is now important that all the member states conclude their ratification processes in time for the paris unfccc conference in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because i believe that this is the european parliament’s chance to send a powerful signal in favour of stronger leadership for the eu and its member states in order to address climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol lasting from january 2013 to the end of 2020. signatories will commit to legally binding emission reductions and the european union, its member states and iceland are committed to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (mostly 1990). i therefore chose to support this recommendation as it will send a strong message at the international level that the european union, its members and its partners are committed to their efforts to address climate change.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. under the doha amendment, the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (mostly 1990). the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level. the timely consent of parliament is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i fully concur with the recommendation that the european parliament give its consent to this agreement for iceland to jointly fulfil its commitments, in a second commitment period, together with the eu and its member states, of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. enabling the entry into force of europe’s commitments as legally-binding commitments in international law sends a strong signal about the commitment of the eu and its member states to a rules-based multilateral regime for addressing climate change at international level. since iceland is not an eu member state, the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation had to be laid down in a separate international agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-iceland agreement on iceland’s participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol as this provides legally binding emission reduction commitments according to which the eu, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020. this provides a strong signal about the efforts to seriously address climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as it is an extension of the vote on the approval of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. this recommendation concerns the agreement between the european union and iceland concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of their commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-iceland agreement on participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emissions-reduction commitments according to which the european union, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of their base-year (in most cases 1990) emissions. since iceland is not an eu member state, the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation had to be laid down in a separate international agreement. the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union, will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level, and the consent of the european parliament to this agreement is therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ the act of 2012 concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union (ex article k 3 teu). i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the procedural recommendations and timeline proposed in this report to make the adjustments required by reason of the accession of croatia to the aforementioned convention, in accordance with article 3(4) and 3(5) of the act of accession.
in writing. ‒ this vote reflects the accession of croatia to the european union. i have thus voted in favor of the report which is technical in nature and which makes the existing provision clear on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union, and its protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical proposal which will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters (the mla convention), between the member states of the eu, and the protocol thereto.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is largely a technical matter concerning the date when the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters enters into force with croatia, following its accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on croatia’s accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the procedural recommendations and timeline proposed in this report to make the adjustments required by reason of the accession of croatia to the aforementioned convention, in accordance with article 3(4) and 3(5) of the act of accession. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this vote reflects the accession of croatia to the european union. i have thus voted in favour of the report, which is technical in nature and which makes the existing provision clear on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union and its protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical proposal which paves the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of the member states of the eu (the pif convention).
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is largely a technical matter concerning the date when the convention on the fight against corruption involving ec officials or officials of member states enters into force with croatia, following its accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on croatia’s accession to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe that the eu needs to conduct a critical reassessment of its relations with russia. february 2014 marked the latest act of aggression by russia against its neighbours. i have no doubt that if the international community does not react to this aggression in the right way, there will be more regions that one could add to this list. in light of this, if the situation does not improve quickly, through the full implementation of the minsk agreements and full respect for ukraine’s territorial integrity and international law, then the eu will be left with no choice but to employ stronger measures against russia. less than a month since the eastern partnership summit in riga, the european union owes this to its eastern partners.
in writing. ‒ the resolution points out that russia’s direct and indirect involvement in the armed conflict in ukraine and its illegal annexation of crimea, together with its violation of the territorial integrity of georgia, and economic coercion and political destabilisation of its european neighbours constitute a deliberate violation of democratic principles and fundamental values and of international law. thus, because of its actions, russia can no longer be treated as, or considered, a ‘strategic partner’. the resolution also calls on the commission to do more to counter russian propaganda and to put an end to russia’s interference in eu democracies. the resolution condemns the ‘arbitrary’ russian blacklist banning 89 eu politicians and officials from its territory as an infringement of international law, a violation of universal standards and an impediment to transparency. meanwhile parliament is also of the opinion that in the long run a constructive and predictable relationship between the eu and russia is possible and desirable. i have thus voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report takes note of the fact that it is of mutual benefit to the union and russia to work towards rebuilding a constructive relationship based on existing international agreements. it is crucial that both parties come together to tackle common concerns on the international stage. the report also highlights the importance of respecting the minsk agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the state of eu-russia relations. i believe in constructive relations with russia as one of the eu’s most important neighbours, but i expect russia to do its part to make this possible: first and foremost, by fully implementing the minsk agreements to stop the conflict in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because, as i stated in my written contribution to the debate, i ‘cannot have confidence in the version of one side or the other regarding the ukrainian crisis, nor in the proposals that they are making regarding the future organisation of the european space’.
in writing. ‒ this draft report is the european parliament’s response to the commission proposal for a european energy security strategy, which was drawn up following the crisis in ukraine. the report outlines the framework for an improved energy security in the eu and identifies the main areas for european action in order to ensure comprehensive energy security in the eu. during the voting i abstained on this report, as although i concur and applaud the majority of the elements in the report i could not fully support some aspects of the text especially concerning the use of hydraulic fracturing.
in writing. ‒ the eu is in urgent need of a framework for improved energy security, especially in the current geopolitical context. europe’s dependence on energy resources has an influence on pursuing an independent foreign policy, the competitiveness of the industry and the standard of citizens’ daily lives. the report focuses on long-term strategic objectives and includes concrete actions to moderate energy demand, increase indigenous energy production, develop energy technologies, and ensure further action to build a fully integrated and well-functioning internal energy market as well as solidarity and coordination mechanisms. the report also emphasises the need for structures which provide consumers with access to electricity at the best price. i have thus voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european energy security strategy as i believe that this is the first step towards a fully functioning energy union. the path to energy security lies in investing in energy efficiency, promoting renewables and developing green technology whilst creating more jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report incorporates and tackles a wide variety of concerns, to ensure that a strong energy security strategy is achieved. as a representative from malta, i support a comprehensive energy policy for europe and recognise the importance of being connected to a well—supplied european energy grid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy. the path to energy security lies in the energy transition: putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money that is currently spent on expensive imports, in order to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs. however, i voted against the amendments that ask member states to refrain from shale gas activities, and on the binding eu energy efficiency target.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the recommendations and analysis set out in this resolution following the consideration of olaf’s responses to the supervisory committee’s reports and opinions that were delivered to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that this motion represented a one-sided position regarding olaf’s activities. i believe that both institutions should have been provided with the opportunity to present their positions before a clear stance was taken by parliament. in this case the olaf director-general was not invited to respond and present its annual activity report and the text voted upon represented only the opinion of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution as it succinctly points out the many issues facing the european anti-fraud office (olaf) supervisory committee. it is important that the commission takes concrete steps to ensure that the supervisory committee can oversee olaf’s independence and its ability to investigate in an effective and efficient manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual 2014 report of the olaf supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i fully concur that certain recent actions and interventions by the hungarian prime minister and his government, concerning the possibility of reinstating the death penalty in hungary, and the wording of the hungarian government’s public consultation on migration might be ‘highly misleading, biased and unbalanced’, but i felt more comfortable abstaining as i believe that the hungarian government will uphold the eu’s principles of democracy, rule of law and human rights. i believe that this resolution helped to send a message to the hungarian government that the eu holds these principles very dear and that they should always be safeguarded, especially within a member state of the union.
in writing. ‒ while the situation in hungary and the rise of populism is of concern, the suggestion in the resolution to create another european oversight body, to somehow ensure hungary’s compliance with the charter and treaties, is not viable or feasible. there is a lack of clarity as to its status under european law and it could infringe the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in hungary since i strongly believe that the european union is a community based on the rule of law and on fundamental values that are non-negotiable.
in writing. ‒ i would like to qualify my vote on this resolution with two remarks. firstly, on a general level, i doubt the value of an omnibus resolution which reviews rather indiscriminately all matters of grievance in hungary’s positioning inside the eu, with little focus on what the priorities should be. secondly, there may be scope for a new effort to carry out a dialogue with the orbán administration about some, if not all, of the issues on which there is dissent from the european parliament and (perhaps) other eu institutions. this could first be attempted informally and confidentially, eschewing the public accusatory tones which have characterised most of the debates and which are counterproductive because they serve to harden and polarise attitudes and positions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that turkey must put its reform process at the centre of its domestic policy choices and commit to democratic rules and principles, which are at the heart of the eu. turkey also needs to uphold media freedom, freedom of expression and judicial independence. the report also asks the commission to review the conduct of the eu accession negotiations with turkey and consider how eu-turkey relations could be improved and intensified. i would add that i deplore turkey’s policy of settlement and call on turkey to refrain from further settlement of turkish citizens in the occupied areas of cyprus, which is contrary to the geneva convention and the principles of international law. this policy will alter the demographic balance on the island, thus impeding a future solution.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on turkey to put its reform process at the centre of domestic policy choices and commit ‘unequivocally’ to democratic rules and principles, which are at the heart of the eu. the report also calls for respect for media freedom, freedom of expression and judicial independence, and welcomes the recent parliamentary elections. it calls on the commission to review the conduct of the eu accession negotiations with turkey and consider how eu-turkey relations could be improved and intensified. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it emphasises that reforms to the rule of law, fundamental rights, home affairs and civil society are being given a higher priority and are receiving increased funding under the instrument for pre-accession. the report also commends turkey’s efforts in assisting and hosting an estimated 1.6 million refugees from iraq and syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual progress report on turkey which, based on the commission’s report, assesses the state of play in turkey’s accession negotiations. the report strikes a fine balance between the need to continue the accession negotiations and criticisms of turkey’s performance in a number of crucial areas, such as the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and basic rights, the rights of minorities and women, etc. the report, while being critical of turkey’s backsliding on democratic reforms, maintains that the eu and turkey are engaged in accession negotiations.
in writing. ‒ although i voted for this resolution, i wish to express the following reservations: (1) on a general level, i doubt the value of an omnibus resolution which reviews rather indiscriminately all matters pertaining to the turkey-eu relationship, with little focus on what the priorities should be;(2) the resolution says much about what turkey should have done better in its relationship with the eu, and little or nothing about what the eu has done badly or not at all in satisfying its commitments to turkey;(3) in particular, the resolution could have analysed the ambiguities, fudges and delays in the eu’s approach when dealing with the turkish request for membership of the eu, which in part provoked turkey’s later quest for a different geo-strategic posture, not least in order to have a fall-back option should its european quest be blocked;(4) the resolution fails to give sufficient acknowledgement to turkey’s achievements as a state with muslim core values, by way of modernisation, economic growth, social development, the stability of its institutions and progress towards an equitable arrangement with its kurdish community.
football is a sport on which the livelihood of many depends, especially when its highest levels have been transformed into a global commodity. it is therefore not surprising that its failures also affect third parties. the fifa scandal does not only damage fifa, but has ramifications on other sectors such as media, broadcasting, marketing and also tears the banking sector in half. football also has a public role with social values. sports fans, along with other economic players deserve the highest standards of integrity in sport. we knew this before the revelation of the fifa scandal and we must acknowledge that the european institutions have already launched several measures. but the latest revelation increasingly reveals the importance of good governance in sport. it is one thing to say that clear rules on financial management, transparency and risk management are needed, but it is another to ensure that these rules are properly enforced in order to keep corruption out of sport. the current allegations raise doubts as to how much fifa can govern itself, and how much it can continue to fail to adopt high standards of good governance. fifa appears to be based on loan regulation without adequate checks and balances. however, sports such as football show commercial dynamics and markets comparable to other economic activities. if we really want to preserve the credibility of sport for future generations, we need to take more action. together we must reiterate our call for more transparency and ensure that there is more accountability in sport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the points raised in this report, notably concerning the strategic transformation of the black sea region following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. russia has now gained a very important launching pad facing the west, the balkans and the south, where it has established a permanent naval task force. the report also condemns russian action to provide direct and indirect support to the separatists, which only encourages the conflict to continue. the eu needs to stay firm with russia, including the possibility of continuing and strengthening sanctions. i also agree with the importance of the review of the european security strategy and the possible increase of csdp cooperation with the black sea littoral partner states ukraine, moldova and georgia.
in writing. ‒ the report firmly supports the non-recognition of russia’s annexation of crimea; reiterates its commitment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, notes with concern that the illegal annexation of crimea has precipitated a significant change in the strategic landscape of the black sea basin and the adjacent area, expresses concern about russia’s current defensive and offensive military build-up in the black sea, and condemns the fact that russia is providing direct and indirect support to the separatist groups in ukraine. i thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it highlights the various ways in which the union can respond to the reality in ukraine and the black sea basin. the report stresses that the eu should strengthen its own resilience to various threats. the report also expresses hope that the minsk ceasefire agreement will not collapse and will allow for further negotiations to take place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution concerning the recent corruption allegations against the international football federation fifa, which in my view have seriously damaged the credibility and the integrity of global football. through this resolution parliament called for a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in football and underlined that in-depth structural reforms within the organisation are now urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ football is a sport upon which the livelihood of many depend, more so since its top levels have developed into a global commodity. it is not therefore surprising that its failures affect those third parties too. the fifa scandal does not damage fifa itself alone but has ramifications in other sectors such as the media, broadcasting, marketing and banking sectors. it also plays a social role, being based on support from sports fans, who are consumers. sports fans, as consumers, together with other economic players that have a direct or indirect role deserve the highest standards of integrity in this sport. the current allegations beg the question as to whether fifa can govern itself and how long it should remain free of external regulations. sport seems to be based on self-regulation without proper checks and balances, yet sports like football show that the commercial dynamics and markets are comparable to any other economic activity. if we want to preserve the credibility of our sport for future generations, action is needed. together we must reiterate our calls for greater transparency and accountability on the side of sport.
in writing. ‒ this resolution condemns the systemic and despicable corruption exposed at fifa and puts on record its view that these allegations are far from surprising. it also calls on sports organisations, the member states and the eu to cooperate fully with all ongoing investigations and underlines the utmost importance of the investigation by the swiss and us justice authorities into the decision by fifa’s executive committee to award the world cup for 1998, 2010, 2018 and 2022 to france, south africa, russia and qatar respectively. since i believe that football, like any other sport, should be a platform that promotes sound moral and ethical values to our youngsters who are so exposed to the world of this sport, i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree that it is imperative that sports organisations, member states and the eu cooperate fully with all ongoing and future investigations into the alleged corrupt practices within fifa. it is also crucial that sports governing bodies commit to good governance practices and increasing transparency in order to reduce the risk of falling victim to corruption and money laundering.
in writing.– the iom reports that more than 100 000 migrants have arrived by sea in europe this year so far. we are clearly dealing with an unprecedented humanitarian crisis situation in the mediterranean, which raises the question for governments about appropriate measures of response at european and national level. how can we call ourselves european if we refuse to help others in need, whether a member state on the periphery of europe dealing with the influx of migrants, or a refugee or asylum seeker wanting international protection? we have an ethical and moral obligation to act, save human lives and help people who have fled war and persecution to find stability and the chance to improve their lives with dignity. i welcome the council agreement on a migrant relocation system, but i strongly criticise the governments who opposed the mandatory relocation mechanism. europe and member states can no longer merely observe the situation, but need to provide strong political leadership, take ownership of the migration debate and fully endorse the commission agenda on migration. europe needs a comprehensive european migration and asylum policy based on solidarity and respect for human rights, dignity and the values upon which the european union is built.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me first express my gratitude to this house – the european parliament – and especially the chairs, mr gualtieri and mr arthuis, and of course the two co-rapporteurs, mr bullmann and mr fernandes, for your excellent support and your excellent work on this very specific and important file. i also want to thank the other rapporteurs who were working on this issue. i have to say that these people were very tough negotiators but also very result-oriented negotiators, and it meant that in record time we managed to pass such a difficult and detailed piece of legislation. it was only possible because of the political will, because we share the same view: europe needs investment, and we have to deliver fast in order to create a better atmosphere and environment for private investors to invest in this continent. as i said, these people were very tough negotiators, and i even owe my first sunrise in this building to them! the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a very important tool to address market failures – market failures which partially originate from regulatory changes. we have regulated in good faith, but it has had some negative impact, which we are now ready to address. europe is not primarily lacking in liquidity: there is plenty of money, plenty of liquidity in the private sector, but there are also plenty of reasons why this liquidity is not used for productive investment in the real economy. one of the reasons is lack of risk financing, and that is exactly what efsi is providing now. we want to provide risk financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, for innovative companies, for start-ups, but at the same time for larger companies and public-private partnership projects in order to get productive investment and create jobs. efsi will not change the whole world. we also need other measures to get more investment. we need measures at international level, which means structural reforms in order to strengthen external competitiveness, and this is what our member states are doing at the moment. we also need other measures at european level, and that is exactly why the commission will also concentrate on the third pillar of the investment plan, which means widening and deepening of the internal market. so i would like to spread the same spirit of delivering fast to those areas in which we are talking about the deepening and widening of the single market. why do we not deliver as fast on those proposals which will harmonise the digital single market or create the digital single market or those proposals coming from the commission which are dealing with the energy market union or capital markets union? these proposals will have an even bigger impact on investment and job creation. according to the european parliament’s own assessment, if we had a digital single market, its impact on our economy would be something like eur 415 billion per year. that is why we have to deliver as fast with these proposals as we did with efsi. the commission is already working on the various documents and actions which are needed for implementation. in less than a month, the commission will be in a position to decide to extend the eu guarantees to the projects warehoused by the eib and the european investment fund, to appoint the members of the steering board alongside the eib, and to issue the scoreboard under a delegated act. the process for recruiting the members of the investment committee will be launched within two weeks, and we aim to have them in place by september. in september, honourable members, you will have the occasion to hear and, hopefully, approve the candidates for the position of managing director and deputy managing director, and we plan to have the european investment advisory hub up and running after the summer, and the european investment project portal by the end of the year. so we are really delivering fast. in this context, and on behalf of the commission, allow me to make the following statement on our assessment of one-off contributions within the context of the efsi initiative for the purpose of implementing the stability and growth pact: ‘without prejudice to the prerogatives of the council in the implementation of the stability and growth pact (sgp), one-off contributions by member states, either by a member state or by national promotional banks classified in the general government sector or acting on behalf of the member state, into the efsi or thematic or multi-country investment platforms established for the implementation of the investment plan, should in principle qualify as one-off measures within the meaning of article 5 of council regulation (ec) no 1466/97 and article 3 of council regulation (ec) no 1467/97.’
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i want to join my colleague, jyrki katainen, in thanking the chairs, mr gualtieri and mr arthuis, and the two rapporteurs, mr bullmann and mr fernandes, and also many others sitting in this room, such as mrs van brempt, who have worked so hard with us to make the fund happen. the negotiations were tough for a reason. we faced a very tall order: to find space to fund the aspiration that this commission brought, with parliament and with the council, to unleash the confidence and courage of our investors for the benefit of our people, and to do so in a very tight budgetary environment. it was not because we had different objectives. we had the same objective, which was to make the best use of our people’s sacrifice. but this objective had to be achieved by making very tough trade-offs between well-performing programmes – horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility – and the margin we need so that we can face the challenges of today and tomorrow. we made this choice together, and now the tough job begins. institutionalising the fund is only the first step. from here on, we have to make sure that it delivers on the promises that we have outlined. from my position, as the person you have trusted with the eu budget, i pledged to you that we would look very carefully every year at the possibilities the budget may offer so that we can further ease the impact we have had on horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. we know that you expect no less from us than to leave no stone unturned and to look at every angle so that we can make the best use of our people’s money. i also want to tell you, from the bottom of my heart, that it made me feel proud to be a european and proud to be serving the european institutions when we, together, got this done in line with the schedule we promised our people we would follow.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. other i find that this fund recognises that if we really want to make a difference in our lives and in the lives of our children we must start investing, now, in those projects and initiatives that are environmentally and socially sustainable. it is no longer time to think that economic growth and environmental protection do not go hand in hand. such thinking is completely wrong. because we live in an era where innovative and sustainable projects that ensure a resource efficient and even low-carbon economy, yes, should be given priority. as rapporteur for the environment committee i expect to see projects now with renewable technology, clean energy, electric transport and circular economy, particularly in those countries where this type of investment is lacking. these are the projects we need to make a leap forward. economic growth and new jobs must reach the citizens of every european union country, from the largest to the smallest, because austerity alone does not deliver long-term results and it is an economy that looks to sustainable growth that makes the difference.
in writing.– an essential problem of the eurozone has become the increasing economic divergence between its different parts (north vs. south and so on). the benchmarks that are being used to stabilise and run the system – which are fully endorsed in this resolution – attack only the symptoms but not the economic fundamentals that are producing this result. indeed, the discipline being followed on the basis of the set benchmarks might be contributing further to the divergences. partial deepening of the existing arrangements could actually serve to further widen the divergences even within a steady state, stabilised context for the eurozone as a whole. the report emphasizes the coordination of economic policies of member states rather than a convergence of economic performance and outcomes. it supports the partial deepening of eurozone structures without making this dependent on progress in efforts to achieve greater economic convergence. it proposes to harmonise tax structures when this will further serve to reduce the flexibility of those economies which, in order to boost their competitiveness and performance, given their limited endowments, will need to differentiate their tax profiles, naturally under conditions of full transparency. for these reasons, i cannot therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the deputy public prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament sotirios zarianopoulos, as part of an investigation concerning an alleged crime. although, during the parliamentary term, members of parliament may not be prosecuted, arrested, imprisoned or otherwise confined without prior leave granted by parliament, the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took up his post. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report regarding the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos as the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution have nothing to do with the position of mr zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour on the report to waive the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, member of the european parliament, who is accused of having threatened physical violence and illegally entered the premises of greek public television channel ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to interrupt the midday news bulletin and read out a statement.
in writing. ‒ the presiding judge at the kammergericht of berlin has submitted a request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt in connection with legal action concerning an alleged offence. mep voigt has claimed that the length of the proceedings, which were initiated in 2006, demonstrates a desire to obstruct his parliamentary work, but this claim has been rebuked as the accusation relates to actions carried out in 2006, which is well before udo voigt was elected to the european parliament in 2014. therefore it was agreed to waive the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt. i voted in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report regarding waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt as the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution have nothing to do with mr voigtʼs position as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report to waive the immunity of udo voigt, member of the european parliament, who is accused of incitement and collective insults in a publication issued by the national democratic party at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as the party chair.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is at the heart of commission president juncker’s investment plan. it is the main channel to mobilise eur 315 billion in new investment in the real economy over the next three years. the fund will be established within the eib, with which the commission will work as strategic partner. it will finance projects with a higher risk profile, thereby maximising the impact of public spending and unlocking private investments. i fully agree with this fund as a way to create more jobs and growth and voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as a rapporteur for the envi committee on the efsi, i focused mainly on the environmental criteria that projects which will be financed should fulfil. the efsi criteria are an acknowledgment that economic growth and environment sustainability can go hand in hand and be complementary rather than contradictory to one another. the economic situation of the eu as it stands today needs a boost, but the investment should be channelled to those projects which can truly make a difference and provide the required boost to economic growth and job creation. the way efsi has been negotiated is directed towards reorienting the european economic policy towards growth and investment. this is an opportunity that can help the eu’s economy to go back on track and give positive results which can be felt by our citizens. for these reasons i voted in favour of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding parliament’s position on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which is an integral part of the juncker commission’s investment plan. a number of parliamentary committees contributed amendments to the commission’s text to ensure that the measures taken to overcome the investment gap are in the best interests of the public. i support parliament’s efforts to guarantee that the efsi is in sync with the european union’s strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the european fund for strategic investments, which proposes new incentives to boost investments by backing them with eu guarantees, which can create trust again amongst investors, public authorities and industries in tomorrow’s growth. by unlocking new investments, efsi can become the flywheel of a new investment cycle that creates new jobs and opportunities. these new investments are not only needed to relaunch the eu economy, but also to transform it into a resilient, innovative, inclusive, low-carbon and circular economy
in writing. ‒ this concerns the mobilisation of eur 630 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), covering technical assistance for the commission to finance monitoring, information, create a knowledge base interface and to advise member states on using, following up and evaluating the egf. the report also calls on the commission to present parliament with a complete analysis and report on the egf funds already implemented and progress on integration into the system for fund management in the european union from the beginning of 2011 until 2014. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising money to simplify the application procedure of the european globalisation adjustment fund as well as to encourage general awareness of the fund and its visibility. i believe in both the importance of the existence of this fund and the continuous development of its operation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it highlights the importance of increasing general awareness about the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in order to reach those who most need it. i also support increasing the commission’s technical capabilities to monitor the funds and advise member states on using and evaluating the efficacy of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this report has been prepared as a contribution to assess and analyse the effectiveness of the first years of the implementation of the economic governance framework to the economic crisis. the recent commission review of the “six pack” and the “two pack” legislation that makes up the eu’s economic governance rules shows that overall the reformed fiscal rules have worked well so far and that future work should build within the framework of existing rules without the need to reopen the governance framework. on the other hand, this report also proposed to harmonise tax structures. this is a very sensitive matter for my country. the moves in the direction of tax harmonisation could set off a trend that could result in serious consequences for the maltese economy. tax harmonisation would reduce the flexibility of those economies, like malta’s, which given its limited endowments and peripheral status only a sovereign fiscal policy can help to partially offset these difficulties in order to boost its competitiveness and performance. due to these reasons i have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report because i have serious reservations related to the power to raise revenue which currently rests on national parliaments, that is, taxation. furthermore i cannot support the proposed fourth pillar on taxation and a taxation union. i cannot support proposals that propose to harmonise tax structures and reduce the flexibility of those economies which are extremely limited. i believe that taxation should remain a member state competence. the power to raise revenue and authorisation of debt issuance currently reside exclusively with national parliaments taking into account their accountability and democratic legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ this report included specific references to convergence of taxation policies of the member states and a commitment to a common consolidated corporate tax base, which i could not support. issues involving taxation, such as these, are matters of national competence and are best dealt with at a member state level.
in writing. ‒ whilst appreciating and supporting the positive aspects of the report on the review of the economic governance framework, i have serious concerns and express my reservations with some of the articles of the report, such as the proposal for the creation of a fourth pillar on taxation and taxation union, including changing the powers to raise revenues, which are an exclusive national competence based on the eu treaties. moreover, harmonisation of the tax structure at this stage might further reduce the flexibility of those economies, which in order to boost their competitiveness and performance, given their limited endowments, will need to differentiate their tax profiles, naturally under conditions of full transparency. for these reasons, i voted against those provisions and against the final report.
in writing. ‒ following the hearing with mrs jakobsen – and after a short evaluation in camera – the european parliament committee on budgetary control gave a favourable opinion on the appointment of the danish candidate to the european court of auditors. mrs bettina michelle jakobsen has been proposed as the new danish member of the european court of auditors, following the death of henrik otbo on 1 february 2015. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. bettina michelle jakobsen joined the danish national audit office in 1990. her experience has involved her in government auditing and the auditing of state-owned undertakings. she held positions at the danish national audit office as auditor, special advisor, head of section and assistant auditor general. in regard to her involvement in national and international activities, it is obvious that she has acquired detailed knowledge and experience in the area of auditing where she held the position of auditor at the nato headquarters in brussels. i think she is up to the role.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. after looking closely at her cv which includes serving in the role of assistant auditor general at the danish national audit office for more than 10 years and acknowledging a unanimous vote in her favour at the parliament’s committee on budgetary control i have supported her nomination.
in writing. ‒ i supported bettina michelle jakobsen’s nomination, due to the fact that she has long-standing working experience as an auditor in the danish national audit office, gave a convincing presentation in committee, including coherent answers to the written questions.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the inter-institutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for official codification of legislative texts, the consultative working party met to examine the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 laying down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the community’s rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organization and agreed that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. the aim of this exercise is to make a law that has been frequently amended to be clear and transparent. i therefore, voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report but insist that european citizens are given the necessary information about the negotiations taking place for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is a series of trade negotiations being carried out between the eu and us and this will directly affect the european citizens. it is very important that these negotiations do not decrease eu standards but ensure that these are safeguarded for the best of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the amended proposal which lays down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the union’s rights under international trade rules. the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. hence as this is a simple procedural exercise i have voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for exercise of the union’s rights under international trade rules, which is only a technical adjustment and fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report taking over the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council regulation (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing of vessels. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it; this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence it does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. the aim of this exercise is to make a law that has been frequently amended to be clear and transparent.
in writing. ‒ the report outlines that the consultative working party consisting of the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. codification of agreements that have been amended on multiple occasions is important so as to ensure that they are accessible and clear to citizens. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts relating to the injurious pricing of vessels without any change in their substance. hence as this is a simple procedural exercise i have voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the protection against injurious pricing of vessels, which is only a technical adjustment and fully preserves the content of the act being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to allow fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela the opportunity to fish off the coast of french guiana. this proposal follows a pending legal disagreement with the council on the correct legal basis for this decision. the legal solution found – a declaration to be made by the council, with the approval of the european parliament – is appropriate for the small-scale fishing in question. this will now provide the fishing carried on in this area, and whose regular activity was not affected by this delay, with the appropriate framework.
in writing. ‒ this declaration will give access to venezuelan fishing vessels to operate in eu waters off the coast of the french department of guiana. the disagreement over the correct legal basis has now been resolved so i will be voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry based in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation of living natural resources in its exclusive economic zone (eez) by venezuelan vessels. given the economic and social importance of this activity in the region, fishing has been authorised for these vessels for decades, with the proviso that part of the catch is landed in local ports. the landing and processing of fishery products therefore represent an important source of income and jobs for french guiana. however there is no international agreement between the eu and venezuela on fisheries, thus cooperation with this country was not in line with the requirements of community law. the legal basis of this agreement has now been solved and venezuela is acting in accordance with european regulations so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities in eu waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana, which authorises fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela to operate in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the french overseas department of guiana for several decades. i believe that this opportunity will help people and the processing industry in french guiana that are heavily dependent on fishing activities from that region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amending budget number 3/2015 for the total amount of the surplus amounting to eur 1 435 million for budgetary year 2014 to be entered as revenue in the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report to enable entry of the surplus from the 2014 financial year in the 2015 budget. it is in the best interest of eu citizens for unused appropriations for the year 2014 to be transferred to subsequent years in order to contribute to the creation of jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 3 of 2015 (dab 3/2015) that covers the budgeting of the surplus of the previous year of eur 1 435 million. this surplus will diminish accordingly the contribution of member states to the financing of the 2015 eu budget. the council needs to honour its commitments towards countries in need by the mobilisation of additional resources, but rather taking money away from the existing programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the eu budget in order to mobilise, for the first time this year, the european union solidarity fund in relation to two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, floods in bulgaria in july and august 2014, and floods in italy in october and november 2014 for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitments and payments.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. it is in the best interest of eu citizens to release financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund to the countries affected by these natural disasters. these funds will amount to eur 66 505 850 which will be distributed according to the total damage caused in the affected countries. it also takes into consideration that the european union solidarity fund shows solidarity with the population in the region hit by disaster.
in writing. ‒ this vote relates to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for romania, bulgaria and italy for a total amount of eur 66.5 million in commitment and payment appropriations. it includes four cases: two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, one flood in bulgaria in july/august 2014, and one flood in italy in october/november 2014. i believe in real solidarity with all member states in need of assistance so i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of romania, bulgaria and italy receiving eur 66.5 million in total for compensation to cover part of the cost of emergency measures taken during the 2014 floods. the aid will now help the three countries to repair damage done to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment, and cultural heritage by floods that hit romania in the spring and summer, bulgaria in the summer and italy in the autumn of 2014.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal by the commission for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund concerning floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. the total proposed mobilisation would require an amendment to the budget 2015 by increasing budget line under the eu solidarity fund for member states by eur 66 505 850 in both commitment and payment appropriations, to be budgeted outside the multiannual financial framework (mff) ceilings. in parallel to the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund, the commission has presented a draft amending budget no 4/2015 of 15 april 2015 in order to enter in the 2015 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity ) for a total amount of eur 66.5 million in response to four floods in italy, romania and bulgaria during 2014. in all four cases, there has been a considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and assets, the agricultural sector and the environment. as i believe in a union which is based on unity and compassion i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of romania, bulgaria and italy receiving eur 66.5 million in total for compensation to cover part of the cost of emergency measures taken during the 2014 floods. the aid will now help the three countries to repair damage done to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage by floods that hit romania in the spring and summer, bulgaria in the summer and italy in the autumn of 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support the idea for a multimodal integrated ticketing system in the eu as it will benefit eu citizens across the board by simplifying our mode of transport and making ticketing more efficient and transparent. this i believe is a fair and better deal for eu citizens and tourists alike.
in writing. ‒ the idea put forward in this report seems to be a good one. the fact that we are trying to promote a shift towards the use of public transport is positive as it reflects an increased awareness of our environment. this type of ticketing would mean that all europeans would avail of a wider selection of mobility options in an easier manner. real-time information would obviously have to cope with any disruptions in the service and the idea of being able to make a journey using a single ticket is certainly enticing. the first thing that must be done is obviously to create a national timetable for all transport modes as in this manner we will be able to establish cross-border networking. this is certainly a positive thing and with the right research and cooperation from all members, it can certainly be a success.
in writing. ‒ it was agreed that service providers should build on existing synergies and cooperate more closely on providing multimodal, cross-border journey planners. member states also called on the commission to support and facilitate the efforts being made to develop intermodal ticketing. if no significant progress is made to develop intermodal ticketing by 2020, the report will call for legislative action. i voted in favour of this report because while this system might bring about some one time pressures on operators and authorities i am sure it will have a positive long term effect for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of developing ‘intermodal’ tickets and to boost efforts to provide single ticketing for trips across eu borders for all modes of transport. therefore i fully supported and voted in favour of the report on delivering multimodal integrated ticketing in europe. the report recommends that updated national timetable and fare information systems should be introduced by 2020, which should be linked on a cross-border basis and made accessible to operators, providers of journey planners and consumers. i also fully support the idea of having a charter of passenger rights covering all modes of transport by the end of 2017 and of improving access to travel information before and during journey with more attention to be paid to the needs of elderly people and those with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i agreed and voted in favour for the extension of the term of office of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect.
in writing. ‒ i supported the call for extending the mandate of the european parliament’s taxe committee, a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, for another six months.
in writing. ‒ i supported the idea of extending the term of office of the special committee on tax rulings for another six months, so this way it has more time to make a comprehensive report and to continue with its investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending budget 1/2015 as it introduces changes to the budget nomenclature for efsi by creating new budget lines and provides for the necessary resources for this important guarantee fund for 2015. no changes are introduced to this amending budget and the extra funds will be financed through the global multiannual financial framework margin for commitments, which will be made available as of 2016.
in writing. ‒ there is a constant need to support these investments as they add value to society both through jobs and skills, as well as by being conscious of our surroundings. it is obviously of importance to create a proper budget for the efsi to be effective and this budget must be there to stimulate growth and to promote competitiveness and employment. this fund must be subject to transparency and accountability measures, so as to ensure that the fund is being used in the proper manner. this fund is a positive one and we must continue to strive to better serve the businesses concerned. this fund is important for states where there are smes as it will help these businesses to grow and to prosper.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is to technically integrate the efsi agreement in the already adopted eu budget 2015 in order to provide the necessary eur 1 360 million for the efsi guarantee fund in 2015. the content of dab 1/2015 completely follows the efsi agreement found between ep and council, which has been already adopted in plenary. as i have worked directly on the efsi dossier at the envi committee i understand the importance of this allocation and this is why i supported it through my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report for a draft amending budget no 1/2015: european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the european globalisation adjustment fund contributes to packages of tailor-made services to help redundant workers find new jobs. its annual ceiling is eur 500 million. redundant workers are offered measures such as support for business start-ups, job-search assistance, occupational guidance and various kinds of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started the measures and will have their costs reimbursed by the eu once their applications are approved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget as i believe that the union’s resources need to be strengthened further in order to manage the migration and refugee flows following the recent developments in the southern mediterranean. i further agree that due to the ongoing and worsening situation in the mediterranean an evaluation of the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) until 2020 needs to take place together with a proposal for an adequate increase in the context of the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). the aim of this amending budget is to strengthen the three agencies (european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex), european asylum office (easo) and european police office (europol)) as well as the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). 23 additional posts have also been proposed for the three agencies.
in writing. ‒ this is a good first step in response to the challenges countries like ours face with regard to migration. the lives of these individuals should not be treated any differently to our lives. we do need to find a longer term solution to this problem. the funding should also go to the member states and it should be used to facilitate the processing of the applications made. it is also important to stress the fact that the employees of these agencies should at no point be redeployed, but their employment should be handled in a manner which will enable the agencies to meet their responsibilities. having said all this we will need to have more efficient financial contributions which will be set in the medium to long-term period, in this manner we will be better able to deal with the whole issue and we will be able to reduce the loss of life at sea.
in writing. ‒ the report suggests that the migration budget is increased together with more transparency. easo and europol should play a greater role in migration and asylum with an increase in staff and budget. while this financial aid will not be the ultimate solution to the migration situation we are witnessing in the mediterranean it is a positive first step to allocate further financial assistance to these bodies hence i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i approved the increase of draft amending budget no 5/2015 by an extra eur 69.6 million in order to respond to migratory pressures and to cope with migrants. three agencies managing migration flows into the eu and various eu funds for migration measures should get a eur 69.6 million budget boost for this year. meps have been calling for a long time now for bigger budgets in the wake of the april tragedies that cost the lives of around 1 200 migrants. frontex will receive eur 26.8 million, tripling the funding available for the triton and poseidon operations. the european asylum support office and the european police office (europol) will receive more staff, while the two main sources of migration-related funding – the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) – will receive additional money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i agree with the points raised in this report on the repercussions of the end of the quota for milk production after 30 years in place. the report questions the capacity of the eu regulatory framework to deal with episodes of extreme market volatility or with a crisis situation. dairy farmers are particularly vulnerable to income variations due to high capital costs, volatile dairy commodity prices and fluctuating input and energy costs. in many disadvantaged areas dairying remains the sole farm income and employment and its continuation is essential to avoid land abandonment. it is important to work towards a viable, sustainable and competitive diary sector across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the various measures implemented in the dairy package that effect farmers, namely the opening of the possibility to introduce compulsory contracts to help producers and processors plan their production volumes and the enhanced recognition of producer organisations and the crucial role that cooperatives play. it evaluated the impact of the russian embargo in this sector and other current challenges. the report focuses greatly on disadvantaged regions, of which malta qualifies as and makes an emphasis on the need for safety net provisions to be made for such regions. the need to have extra assistance to disadvantaged areas from the rural development programmes fund – a notion which malta is very much in favour is also mentioned. hence i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the review of the implementation of the dairy package, which aims at helping eu dairy producers to boost their bargaining power. we need to secure various export opportunities for eu produce shut out of the russian market and improve the current volatility confronting dairy farmers. the report covers all these aspects plus the impact of the russian embargo, broader challenges and opportunities in the sector, and the particular problems faced by disadvantaged, mountainous and outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i am convinced that increased participation by eu companies in large-scale international public-private partnerships (ppps) outside the single market could lead to substantial benefits in terms of the creation of decent jobs, productivity, competitiveness, technological capabilities and innovation development in the eu. it is a potential source of growth for eu companies and, at the same time, useful for our partner third countries, as these ppps could provide infrastructures, goods and services of general interest. i agree that the commission should also be encouraged to guarantee that eu trade agreements contain instruments for our companies, especially smes, to compete abroad on equal terms with foreign national companies and believe that ppp-related challenges can be overcome through principles of good governance, such as transparency and clarity of rules, the area of development aid. ppps are an effective way to spend european funds while supporting eu priorities and coherence with other policies.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to guarantee that european small businesses are treated in an equal manner as foreign companies when trading in non-eu countries. ppps are important as they are the solution to the growing lack of public investment. it is important to also understand that smes are the driving force of job and wealth creation in developing countries, and therefore there must be interaction between the public and private investors. the commission must also work to help to open up the market access for european companies in the context of the ppp arrangements outside of the union. it is also important that the different bodies within the union help smes on how to be able to enter ppps in countries outside the union. these partnerships will help the smes to grow and develop better. therefore it is important to ensure their equal treatment when trading in non-eu states.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the opportunities provided to eu companies by public-private partnerships in third countries and the effects on job creation, competitiveness and productivity. it calls for eu trade policy to work towards ensuring market access for eu companies abroad where they still face substantial barriers in procurement markets. the report emphasises the need to facilitate sme's access to these tenders and makes a number of recommendations in this regard, including the formation of consortia. i believe both in the importance of public –private partnerships and in opening as many avenues as possible to our entrepreneurs so i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, which stresses the opportunities provided to eu companies by public-private partnerships in third countries and the effects on job creation, competitiveness and productivity. it calls for eu trade policy to work towards ensuring market access for eu companies abroad where they still face substantial barriers in procurement markets. the report emphasises the need to facilitate smes’ access to these tenders and makes a number of recommendations in this regard, including the formation of consortia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in response to the commission’s report on the implementation of the provisions concerning producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. i believe that the basic organisational structure for the fruit and vegetable sector remains valid, and no major changes are needed, but that there are areas where improvements can be made, for example, in the simplification of the rules and controls governing the functioning of producer organisations (pos) in order to increase its membership and become more effective. i also believe that well-functioning pos are viewed as having a role to play in attracting more young people into farming and reverse the unsustainable demographic trend being experienced by the sector. as the rate of organisation of producers into pos remains low on average in all the member states, this is another matter that needs to be tackled.
in writing. ‒ overall the fruit and vegetables sector has increased since 2004 but on the other hand general fruit and vegetable production declined in europe. it is also clear that the russian ban will have significant negative effects on this sector. therefore the report calls on the commission to intensify efforts at improving the sector by addressing unfair trade, simplifying the common agricultural policy, encouraging producer organisations and increasing negotiations with 3rd world countries among others. keeping in mind the fragility of malta’s agricultural sector and the importance of this niche for those who are dependent on it i supported fully this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the eu must do more to help farmers to earn a fair return from the food supply chain, introduce better tools for dealing with market disturbances and help farmers to find new outlets for produce shut out of the russian market. therefore, with a few reservations, i voted in favour of the draft report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. the russian ban on eu exports has seriously affected many european fruit and vegetable producers and has even worsened market crisis situations such as that experienced by the stone fruits sector, and the report asks that in such circumstances community support measures be kept in place for as long as necessary until the normal market situation is fully re-established.
thank you, mr president, and allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this that we are talking about today because as a mother of a young child i would like my son to live in a clean environment and to have a quality job in europe in the future. it is this balance that we want to achieve and this should be the main objective of the ets. ten years ago the european union set up this system as its main tool against climate change but the implementation of the system as it stands is having little effect. on the one hand the ets has achieved the reduction in green house gas emissions, although part of this reduction may be due to the economic crisis, and on the other hand the ets has not offered a good price to incentivise the entry of innovative technologies and cleaner sources. the emissions trading scheme as it currently stands does not function properly. there is an excess of allowances that we need to address and fix and to make this system effective in a reasonable time we need to implement the market stability reserve as soon as possible and certainly no later than 2019. the market stability reserve shall provide stability and prevent price volatility. it should send a strong signal and help industry to plan for the long term while promoting investment in more innovative and cleaner technology. the success or failure of the ets will directly influence emissions in europe and climate change. we need a strong system to reduce emissions most effectively and at the lowest cost while helping european industries to stay on our continent and remain competitive.
mr president, europe and the world have been in the shadow of terrorism for a long time. today we are talking ten years after the worst terrorist attacks in london, a few months after the charlie hebdo tragedy, a few weeks after the charleston church attacks in the united states, a few days after the attacks in france, tunisia and kuwait and a few hours after the attacks by boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in kenya. let's be clear, condolences are not enough. we must do much, much more to stop terrorism wherever it occurs. on the same day we saw 66 people killed in tunisia, kuwait and france. they were killed regardless of their beliefs. what we have seen again shows the need to fight terrorism and extremism more. those who commit terrorist acts have no respect. terrorism knows no borders, has no religion and where religion is used it is an excuse to justify a heinous crime. the attackers in tunisia have been linked to the islamic state. let's be clear, this is an organization, not a state and it does not represent muslims. it is an organisation responsible for deaths caused by unlimited and senseless violence. we should show our support to those who have suffered these cowardly acts. tunisia, which may have started the seeds of the arab spring, is now in a state of emergency. libya remains in a state of chaos. al-shabaab and boko haram continue to carry out attacks almost daily. the european union needs to ensure that security measures are implemented for all citizens. it is time to move forward on a european union pact against terrorism. a pact to eradicate extremism perpetrated and justified for different reasons. we need to improve european union legislation including the nrp. mr president, we must stop terrorism! the attacks that take place should not intimidate us or diminish our political will to fight terrorism. on the contrary, they should and should strengthen our resolve. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. thank you for asking. no, i do not agree with you that the measures proposed in the pnr cannot be a force for good against those who threaten our security; and there we are discussing a lot of measures that we would like to see agreed in this parliament in the coming days. we also need to strengthen the powers of the european union counter-terrorism coordinator. we need to give more powers to europol to see how we can strengthen cooperation between police operations between our countries. there is much to be done but we need agreement between the european institutions, including on this.
member of the commission. the commission is not i thank all those who contributed to the debate. in essence, they also reflect our view. i can also assure you that tunisia is receiving the greatest attention. there was no need for these terrible terrorist attacks. i also asked the tunisian government to come immediately after the last attack, not only to show solidarity but also to show the european citizens that it is still possible to come and spend your holidays in tunisia. i was asked not to come at the moment because, understandably, they are quite busy dealing with the current situation. but it should express that we are really there for them and support them. i also share your views, which are summarized in the marshall plan. it is not just tunisia, but other countries in the neighbourhood would be potential candidates for a sort of updated marshall plan for the 21st century. i am talking to our services, but also to the world bank, which probably has the most expertise here, that we prepare a basic blueprint here, so to speak, so that help can be given as soon as possible. in tunisia - i can say this - we are very present, we are also trying to scrape together the money. we shall have the opportunity to discuss the revision of the neighbourhood policy in the context of the kukan report later this evening. our primary objective - and i think we agree on this - is to ensure stability in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can already ask you to support us in this if we need this flexibility to ensure stability. i'll take the security questions and suggestions. i know that the high representative and vice-president mogherini has been active on this issue and is of course looking at the possibilities in relation to the situation in libya. finally, i would like to say to you - and this is also at your request - that tunisia will be on the agenda of the next foreign ministers' council on 20 july and that we have invited the tunisian foreign minister, taïeb baccouche, to join us for lunch. this is the usual format where intensive actually talk is, so to speak, tached.
in writing.– instability in north africa was boosted by the efforts of european powers to achieve regime change there. they did this without having a road map for the future. the resulting confusion has fuelled radical extremism, multiplying the security threat both inside and outside north africa. still, tunisia managed to achieve a fragile democratic balance that has become almost unique as a model for the area. this has made the country a priority target for terrorism, as witnessed by the recent act of atrocious violence on the beaches of tunisia. its fragility is caused by insufficient jobs, investment and economic growth. precisely, terrorists aim to destabilise tunisia by hitting at this fragility to create more unemployment, frighten investment off and undermine the economy. the destabilisation of tunisian democracy is contrary to europe’s vital interests. there is a moral obligation and just as importantly a geostrategic urgency for europe to counter this threat. this can only be done by a special programme, one that is suitably funded by the european union, meant to help tunisia counter the economic consequences of the terrorist threat it is facing and be in an effective position to sustain jobs, investment and growth.
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all thank you for your generosity in giving me ten minutes to recover later on. secondly, i would also like to ask you to pass on my gratitude to the previous chair, mrs lunacek, as she has rightly clarified that the duties and responsibilities of our high representative include raising her voice if it is necessary. one can disagree about the content, but the fact that she has to raise her voice is, i think, clear and should not be challenged in any way. coming back to the debate, i would like warmly to thank you for an extremely constructive debate on the middle east and north african region (mena), a region that is most urgently crying out for the attention of the european union and the whole international community. despite accelerated transformations after the arab upheavals in 2011, political, economic and social dynamics in the region prove that democratic transformation can only come after the consolidation of stability, a genuine conditio sine qua non for democratisation. as has been stated, instability has, sadly, become a common feature of the mena region. therefore the eu needs to work side by side with our partners to help in this process of change. we must therefore jointly address such a security challenge. by the way, i see mr gahler is no longer here but, as he has raised this issue twice today, i would like to clarify – concerning the idea of having a kind of border assistance management on the tunisian side of the libyan border – that this is something we will take into account and reflect on. but it also depends, of course, on the agreement of the host country. but quite honestly, i do not believe we have any choice, as friends, partners and neighbours. with a series of common threats ahead of us, we need to seek overlapping areas of consensus, forging an ever stronger link between the eu and the arab and muslim worlds, as well as others in the region. we can say without contradiction that we face regional challenges and that such challenges call for regional solutions and these solutions need to be carried out by, and with, regional actors. bilaterally we have, of course, to express respect for diversity. diversity is the core feature of our european history and it is our strength, but we should also show respect for diversity when we look outside our borders. we need to understand diversity and complexity. all this should be done in a comprehensive manner and not just with a focus on the hard security issue. together with our partners in the region, we must jointly address the links between security and development, involving civil society in our cultural dialogue and fully respecting human rights standards with a view to widely tackling all horizontal issues, from migration to economic integration. we need to work in both bilateral and regional frameworks across the region. everyone has a responsibility to contribute and everyone should be given a chance – muslim, christian, jew or non—believer, sunni or shia, arab or kurd. only inclusive democracies can navigate such tough times. finally, let me reiterate that it is the common understanding of the high representative, myself and all the other members of the commission that, when it comes to our neighbourhood – in particular in the mediterranean – we should be in the driving seat to resolve the problems; we should be there and take care of the situation. of course we need some allies there, but it should be clear that it is our immediate interest and we should, once again, be the ones who are pushing hopefully sustainable resolutions.
in writing.– as i have stated before and will state again, there is no security in europe without security in the mediterranean. this is why the eu must contribute all its efforts to help decrease the tension in the middle east and north africa by ensuring that its internal and external policies reflect today’s realities. we must review our policy action relating to the region to ensure that they reflect the post-arab spring environment and concerns of growing terrorism in the area. terrorism in the mena area is not simply a regional problem – we have seen that if we continue to ignore the situation in the area this could have dire consequence on the entire world. we have already seen the dangerous consequences of the destabilisation of certain regions due to serious security and humanitarian crisis. that of the horn of africa region resulted in millions of internally and externally displaced persons and led to a situation where refugees have found themselves living in protracted situations for over three decades. we must not make the mistakes of the past, and we cannot allow the same thing to happen in the mena region.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, european wealth in cultural and linguistic diversity it is also intended to give a different dynamic to the european creative sector. this diversity is an opportunity to make the digital single market offer exclusive creative content. this can be achieved by striking a fair balance between rights and removing barriers to the enjoyment of existing content and the creation of new content. the report being presented today reflects the balance necessary for end users to benefit from enhanced access to creative content, as well as this parliament's role in continuing to foster investment in the sector, encourage employment and job creation and give the industry an opportunity to embrace digital technologies. with these aims in mind, i have considered challenges experienced by users, as well as by creators and other rights holders. together with other shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur, whom i thank for their efforts, i worked to ensure that opportunities in the creative sector are not lost to the creators or to the users. this report seeks to make copyright work in both the analogue as well as the digital world by giving users and creators the full possibility of drawing on the potential of both these worlds. it emphasises the importance of portability of content across borders, further remuneration for creators, respect for contractual freedom, market-driven solutions that reflect the ever-changing expectations of users, and the provision of solutions which are evidence-based. with this report, parliament continues to show its belief in creators, as well as its aspirations to continue to make avenues available to make european cultural and creative works more accessible, by seizing the opportunities that the digital age provides. i look forward to a favourable vote on this report. i also thank the commissioner for indicating that parliament and the commission seem to be following the same principles, and i look forward to the commissioner's proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution for the continuation of negotiations of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement as i believe that the resolution has satisfactorily addressed all of our main interests. in particular, we ensured that the geopolitical importance of ttip is emphasised; there is no international labour organisation (ilo) ratification as condition for concluding ttip; market access for services is based on a hybrid approach; and isds is not excluded from ttip, but should be reformed. on a personal level, i believe ttip opens up a vast market, which would have otherwise been very difficult to infiltrate by smes from my own country, notably in the maritime and financial services sectors. as we know, due to their limited resources, trade and non-trade barriers tend to disproportionately burden smaller firms much more than their larger counterparts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report but insist that european citizens are given the necessary information about the negotiations taking place for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is a series of trade negotiations being carried out between the eu and us and this will directly affect the european citizens. it is very important that these negotiations do not lower eu standards but ensure that these are safeguarded for the best of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ given the political importance and implications of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, i voted in favour of the report that gives guidelines on what we want the commission to negotiate upon. i believe that a good and fair transatlantic agreement can be beneficial to european union citizens and enterprises in terms of growth and jobs while avoiding a global race to the bottom on human rights, environmental and labour standards. with regards to critical areas such as public services and environmental and food safety standards, the commission should commit to excluding public services such as water, health, social services, education, etc. from ttip and to ensuring that national authorities retain full rights in these areas; upcoming negotiations must also ensure that eu-us regulatory cooperation in the future will not lower eu standards, including those on gmos, labour and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on parliament’s recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because it is a workable compromise between the major political groups within parliament. it is important that the commission takes note of parliament’s position regarding ttip when negotiating the details of this trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i think that this agreement – if and only if negotiated properly – could be of benefit to our economies and could open up new opportunities for european companies, especially small and medium-sized ones. therefore, i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament’s recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), which is not a ‘yes or no’ vote on ttip, but instead outlines our priorities and main conditions of the european parliament for a good future agreement, ones that respect european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ttip resolution on the understanding that care will be taken to ensure that the outcome of negotiations will not serve to further increase the economic divergence that is happening between different regions of the european union and the eurozone. if ttip serves to further erode the competitive position of smes in different parts of the union, such divergence could grow. claims have been made in favour of ttip that it would promote greater trading opportunities for smes. such arguments are, however, backed by flimsy evidence. it is much more likely that the greatest beneficiaries of ttip will be the larger multinationals on both sides of the atlantic. it is therefore equally important that european negotiators ensure that private investors are not enabled under ttip to access arbitration and legal decisions that circumvent national and european legal jurisdictions while having the power to reverse or compensate for national policy decisions taken by governments in the national interest. my vote in favour is also conditioned by a belief that this point too is firmly covered in the terms that will continue to be set for the ttip negotiating mandate.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this protocol in order to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in relation to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which was concluded before croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this vote reflects the accession of croatia to the eu, which as a member state is to enjoy the stabilisation and association agreement between the member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is a procedural vote which i supported since it updates the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in order to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this recommendation which concerns the inclusion of croatia in the european union’s existing stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, following croatia’s accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support and consent to conclusion of the protocol for the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this protocol in order to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in relation to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states and serbia, which was concluded before croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this vote reflects the accession of croatia to the european union. i have thus voted in favour of the report which is technical in nature and which makes the existing provision clear on the accession of croatia to the stabilisation and association agreement between the member states and the republic of serbia.
in writing. ‒ this is a procedural vote which i supported since it updates the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and serbia in order to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this recommendation which concerns the inclusion of croatia in the union’s existing stabilisation and association agreement with serbia following croatia’s accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support and consent to conclusion of the protocol for the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i have followed the recommendation of the european parliament committee on industry, research and energy and gave my consent to renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation with india, following the request for consent by the european parliament that was submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a)(v), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the initiative of renewing the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and india will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest. the agreement is based on the right principles, including mutual benefit, non-discrimination and protection of intellectual property. the renewing of this agreement will allow for increased scientific knowledge leading to market access opportunities and is thus being done in the best interests of the scientific communities, industry and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of india as i believe that such co-operation can be beneficial to both sides.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this recommendation that concerns the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. this cooperation agreement is mutually beneficial to the union’s member states and india as all parties continue to build indo-european research initiatives that focus on tackling larger scale and common societal challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, as in my opinion extending the period for an additional five years will be in mutual interest of all parties.
in writing. ‒ i have followed the recommendation of the european parliament committee on industry, research and energy and gave my consent to the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020), following the request for consent by the european parliament that was submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a)(v), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european union and faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest. the conclusion of this agreement will allow for increased scientific knowledge leading to market access opportunities and is thus being done in the best interests of the scientific communities, industry and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation spread between 2014 and 2020 – can be beneficial to both sides.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report that concerns the scientific and technologic cooperation between the union and the faroe islands under the remit of horizon 2020. this means that legal entities from the faroe islands can participate with research entities from member states in projects that respond to calls for proposals under horizon 2020. the faroe islands will also contribute financially to horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i supported the purpose of this proposal, which is to conclude the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ the revision of the shareholders’ rights directive is part of the initiatives foreseen in the european commission’s action plan to review european company law and corporate governance. in my view the commission proposal has always been controversial as it would unnecessarily over burden businesses. the main stumbling points from my side in this discussion were the elements related to remuneration policy, comply and explain in identification of shareholders, deletion of long term incentive obligation and the country-by-country reporting (cbcr). i voted against the text on incentives for long-term shareholding obligation and abstained on the text related to cbcr and tax rulings. i agreed with the rapporteur to postpone the final vote on the legislative resolution in order to start negotiations for a first reading agreement.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as we succeeded in securing assurances that businesses would not be overburdened by the measures proposed by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to approve plans to re-write the eu’s eight-year-old shareholders’ rights directive that would require listed companies to publicly report financial information, including profits and losses, tax payments, and public subsidies received on a country-by-county basis. i believe that shareholders should have the right to vote on the company’s remuneration policy for its directors and that the new rules would be better than what we have now, which should help improve stability and boost long-term investment by encouraging shareholders to be more active and engaged and to steer their focus to long-term performances of companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which includes the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on a far-reaching reform of the european emissions trading system (ets). an automatic correction mechanism (market stability reserve or msr) that will enable the ets to function much more effectively will start operating in 2019. this reform puts europe on the right track to achieving its ambition of 40% less co2 emissions by 2030 and in a leading position for the upcoming climate conference (cop21) to propose concrete plans to reach the 2030 climate targets. on the other hand, we need to ensure that the upcoming commission proposals include sufficient guarantees that energy-intensive industries in steel, chemicals, glass, etc. do not delocalise their production facilities to countries outside the eu that have less stringent climate policies (‘carbon leakage’). this will be a crucial element in the next step of the ets reform.
in writing. ‒ the fact that the commission’s intention is to make structural changes which will in turn address the surplus of emission allowances is positive. the commission also sets out to rectify the shortcomings which prevented it from achieving its purpose ‘to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner,’ this too is a positive step forward in itself. it is positive to see the commission responding to the calls made by the ep to correct the failed measures of the ets and to allow it to function as originally envisaged. the proposal to also have rules which govern the fluctuations of the market as well as supply of allowances is a step in the right direction. this will improve the medium to long-term predictability of the industry. it is important that reform enables us to reach our co2 emission reduction targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the msr mechanism because i believe that this can help in re-balancing the ets. it is a fact that the eu-ets needs fixing urgently. i want to see stability and predictability in the ets. stability is crucial so that the proper investments that can ensure sustainable economic growth can be carried out. moreover today’s vote sends also a strong signal toward climate negotiations that are to take place during the cop 21 this year in paris in december.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that supports the commission’s proposal to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets). parliament called for measures to correct the failings in the ets, and the commission responded positively. the proposal corrects structural issues that did not adequately cater for changes to market conditions or protect the ets against unexpected and sudden demand shocks. parliament suggested the inclusion of clear protection within the ets for the union’s industries that are at risk of carbon leakage.
in writing. ‒ i fully endorsed the reform of the eu emissions trading scheme (ets), which is intended to reduce the surplus of carbon credits available for trading in order to support the price of the emission rights. without structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) we will not be able to address the surplus of emission allowances which has been building up in recent years. the market stability reserve is an efficient, market-driven tool that will stabilise our ets system.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as whilst i fully support measures aimed at enhancing seafarers’ living and working conditions on board vessels and to increase the attractiveness of maritime employment, i believe that extending the same eu legislative framework applicable to land-based workers to seafarers is not the right means to attain these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution since in its revision this resolution includes also the role of social partners. furthermore, it is important to take into consideration the effects of such a proposal on the global industry, which i believe will be positive.
in writing. ‒ while i am in agreement with the union’s efforts to increase seafarers’ living and working conditions, i did not support this resolution as extending the same legislative framework regarding onshore workers is not, in my opinion, the best way to achieve this goal.
in writing. ‒ despite the general application of eu labour law to all sectors and categories of workers, seafarers are still excluded from the scope of the various eu directives. these exclusions have a negative impact on the rights recognised under the charter of fundamental rights, in particular with regard to the right to information and consultation and the right to fair and just working conditions. i have always been a strong advocate for better working conditions and rights for seafarers and therefore i will always support measures aimed at enhancing seafarers’ living and working conditions on board, which will help increase the attractiveness of the european maritime employment sector worldwide. seafarers should not be discriminated against or treated differently from any other categories of workers.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent for the conclusion of this agreement following the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy.
in writing. ‒ the conclusions put forward in this recommendation on the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european union and european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest. the conclusion of the agreement will allow for increased scientific knowledge leading to market access opportunities and is thus being done in the best interests of the scientific communities, industry and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the buzek report on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation with reference to horizon 2020 and the latter’s participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy as i believe that this is an exercise which can be mutually beneficial.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it concerns the scientific and technologic cooperation between the union and switzerland under the remit of horizon 2020. the union will benefit from switzerland’s position as a leading player in the fields of research and scientific innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at concluding the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and european atomic energy community (euratom) and switzerland associating this country to horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and regulating switzerland’s participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights a number of elements such as the prevention of early school leaving, the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people, an emphasis on the educational systems with a focus on skills, and the improved link between education and the labour market. i believe that job seekers need to be equipped with the skills employers are looking for not just in tackling youth unemployment, but also the overarching problem of long-term unemployment. it might be the time for adapting and updating the educational framework, possibly through more innovative teaching methods and equipping youth with skills broad enough to equip them with a solid basis for life-long employability.
in writing. ‒ it is positive to see the work being done towards a union where we tackle unemployment collectively. we must have a developed strategy which will promote having a workforce which is responsive to the needs of society today. it is positive to see work being done towards a union with less long-term unemployment. we should have policies which promote better wages, and decent working conditions. it is also good to see that equal opportunities for everyone are being promoted and social exclusion is to be reduced. for these principles and policies to be truly effective, there must be good governance of each member state. it is important that bureaucratic measures are reduced to also make it easier for smes to contribute to job creation, this though must not leave room for abuse. therefore employment policies must encourage the employment of individuals, they must enhance the skills of the unemployed so as to make them employable, they must be less bureaucratic and they must be fair, giving everyone an equal chance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it promotes effective employment and education policies at member state and union level with the final aim of achieving full employment and social progress objectives. having said that, my vote reflected also my belief that what is member state competence should remain as such. furthermore i believe that unemployment benefits should target unemployment whereas start-ups should have grants specific for them.
in writing. ‒ the current integrated guidelines for the employment policies of the union’s member states underpin the overarching europe 2020 strategy which focuses on investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility. parliament’s report also highlights the importance of including regional and local authorities in combating unemployment and quality job creation. the report emphasises the importance of promoting entrepreneurship amongst the union’s youth as well as the provision of the necessary support to our small and medium enterprises. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in general, i fully support the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which underpins the europe 2020 strategy within the context of the new approach to economic policy and supporting the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the report refers to areas which are of particular importance for me, such as investment, growth, barriers to growth and jobs, sustainability of public finances, demand for labour, skills, functioning of the labour markets, poverty and equal opportunities. even if this is a very positive report and i voted in favour, i could not support certain paragraphs which in my opinion impinge negatively on the policy areas that fall strictly under member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising funds from the european globalisation and adjustment fund through the egf regulation in respect of the application submitted by finland as all the conditions were met. i particularly welcome the complementarity of the proposed egf interventions with other actions funded by national or union funds. another poignant point is the fact that enterprise surveys and visits may not only benefit dismissed workers covered in this application, but may also contribute to building knowledge about employment issues within this sector for future redundancies.
in writing. ‒ here 568 personnel working in the communications sector in finland have been made redundant. such redundancies are linked to events directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis. now 500 redundant workers will receive advice and guidance from a team of expert consultants. these personalised services consist of three types of measure (i) help them to find a new job, (ii) help them start a business and (iii) provide training and education. i have thus voted in favour of this report to support workers’ integration back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application from finland for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 365 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. it concerns 500 out of 568 workers made redundant in broadcom and 2 suppliers or downstream producers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools in the union’s arsenal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions to mobilise egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 568 workers in the communications sector in finland due to significant structural changes in the world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing € 1.36 million in job search aid for 500 redundant workers in finland. the redundancies are part of a trend hitting the entire finnish electronics industry. the eu resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will finance coaching for 500 of the redundant workers, grants to start their own enterprises, and hiring incentives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is a good way forward for the discussions at trilogue. of particular interest are elements concerning the financing of the cosme programme, security and migration and the creation of employment and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship across the union (eees).
in writing. ‒ it is important to ensure that there is adequate funding for humanitarian aid especially for those member states providing refuge to migrants. there must also be adequate funding to combat the migration issue. it is important to also inform the people on how the eu is allocating the budget to funding humanitarian aid. we must allocate enough budget to the creation of jobs and social inclusion programmes for those individuals who are in a disadvantageous position. this will enable us to prosper and to grow further. vocational training should be budgeted for together with apprenticeships. we must also keep in mind the goals of achieving a low-carbon economy and must budget appropriately for this. seeing as all the points mentioned are present in the report, it only means that we are moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ this draft report constitutes the first formal response of the european parliament to the draft budget 2016 unveiled by the commission on 27 may 2015. the socialists and democrats group, of which i am a member, has looked closely at this proposal and has managed to include a number of important points in this report which is parliament’s response to it. amongst them is the point that the effect of the inclusion of the european fund for strategic investment (efsi) in the draft budget for 2016 on horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (cef) shall be minimised to the largest possible extent. another point is that the funding of the youth employment initiative (yei) as a key tool for the fight against youth unemployment in the european union needs to be increased. another point that s&d pushed for, and which is important to malta, is extra funding in the 2016 budget to allow for full financing of the commission’s relocation mechanism and resettlement programmes with regard to immigration. for these reasons i voted in favour of the mandate for trilogue.
roberta metsola (ppe),in writing. – i chose to support this report as the union needs to move forward in its budgetary planning in order to deal with the backlog of payments that need to be made. these cover a wide variety of the union’s core projects and it is essential that outstanding payments are dealt with to prevent further shortfalls in programmes that are part of the 2014-2020 budget.
in writing. ‒ this draft report constitutes the first formal response of the ep to the draft budget 2016 unveiled by the commission on 27 may 2015 and it will serve as a mandate for the ep delegation. i voted in favour of this mandate because it sets as its main priorities an increase in funding of the youth employment initiative (yei) as a key tool for the fight against youth unemployment in the european union; reinforcements in the area of external aid programmes, in particular for the assistance to palestine and to unrwa, and humanitarian aid; and last but not least because it suggests a proper response to the challenges posed by migration trends and the exceptional situation in the mediterranean, and pushes for extra funding in the 2016 budget to allow for full financing of the commission’s relocation-mechanism and resettlement-programmes, to improve reception and integration conditions for asylum seekers and refugees, and to support all front-line member states experiencing migratory pressure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the green economy provides significant opportunities in the labour market, with new kinds of jobs created and others replaced or redefined. on the other hand, the transition to green employment will also present its challenges. i believe that it might be time to adapt and update the educational framework, possibly through more innovative teaching methods and equipping youth with skills in the emerging new green job sector. the forecast for this sector of the economy remains quite strong. i also supported the view that new burdens on smes should be avoided when discussing their role in this new sector.
in writing. ‒ green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for workers in the eu, and is estimated to grow considerably in the coming years. the report also calls for the creation of more entrepreneurial mind-set, a strengthening of the entrepreneurial culture in the eu, and also calls on all member states to make the transition from traditional jobs to green jobs. the report highlights the fact that a green and a circular economy can provide solutions for the environment as well as for the economy. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the green employment initiative report presents a framework to allow labour market and skill policies to support workers in coping with labour market transitions. this report works together with the commission’s green employment initiative and the green action plan for smes to help in the transition towards a greener economy. while i fully support the focus on creating jobs from the green economy i also believe that we need to help our workforce to adapt to the requirements of this niche, hence i voted in favour of this report. however i must emphasis that matters related to taxation should remain the competence of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it presents an ambitious set of proposals regarding the potential employment opportunities that are linked to a switch to a greener economy. the report took into account the burdens faced by smes by a shift towards a green economy and presented a more gradual development plan, starting with information and awareness campaigns about moving to greener products and processes as well as incentives to make the move.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report outlines the employment challenges and opportunities of the current transition towards a green, low-carbon, energy and resource-efficient economy. the green employment initiative communication presents an integrated framework to allow labour market and skill policies to play an active role to support this transition and focuses on the importance of anticipating and establishing adequate skills policies to support workers in coping with structural change, of securing labour market transitions, and of strengthening governance and partnership-based initiatives. tapping the potential of the green economy offers a unique opportunity to provide jobs and green growth. this is a positive report which i supported, but i voted against some parts that are impinging on policy areas that are strictly national competences related to tax on capital and corporate gains and tax on financial transactions.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the need to strengthen developing countries’ capacity to deal with challenges, including in the field of taxation as many of these aspects are indeed global phenomena, and consequently require global coordinated action. for this reason i fully agree with the idea that developing countries are equally engaged and participate in this process, but i disagree with the need of including the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) in this report. i fail to recognise the relation with developing countries. in this regard i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ while the report does bring out some positive points i am not in a position to vote in favour of this report as the points referring to a common consolidated corporate tax base are not ideal for greater investment within the union’s states. tax laws should be issues which are left up to the member states; there cannot be the convergence of a tax law without a negative impact on the economy of certain member states. even though there is support for certain proposals put forward in this report, there cannot be the support for the harmonisation of a consolidated tax base.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i am in favour of strengthening developing countries’ capacity to deal with challenges, including in the field of taxation. i support the idea that developing countries are equally engaged and participate in this process. however, i am not in favour of duplicating standards or increased administrative burdens brought upon business operators as a result of duplication.
in writing. ‒ even though i support the union’s efforts to help developing countries establish or alter their tax systems to tackle illicit financial flows, i could not support this report as it contained unnecessary references to the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base. such taxation issues do not fall under the eu’s competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of strengthening developing countries’ capacity to deal with challenges, including in the field of taxation. the issues currently on the eu and oecd agendas are equally relevant for developing countries, as many of these aspects are indeed global phenomena, and consequently require global coordinated action. nevertheless, i could not agree to some provisions, which in my opinion may not necessarily be helpful in progressing work in this area and goes within the sovereign right of member states. last but not least, i have my reservations with regard to a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i am not in favour of an increase in binding and more ambitious waste targets. i believe that the right way forward should rather be to improve the implementation of the current legislation rather than proposing new targets. i believe that changing the proposed legally binding target of 30% ‘resource productivity’ by 2030 to become voluntary among member states was a good way forward.
in writing. ‒ in the circular economy model, drawn up by this report, existing materials and products are continuously re-used, repaired, re-furbished and recycled, and thus the waste quantities are minimised. moving towards a circular economy is essential to deliver on the eu’s resource efficiency agenda, which can also bring major economic benefits to europe. it must be highlighted that resource efficiency is a solution to the economic and ecological challenges that europe is struggling with. moving to a more resource-efficient economy is a major opportunity for the eu that must not be missed. producers and the business community have a tremendous role to play, with an increasing number of companies recognising the business case for improved resource efficiency as a way of giving their businesses and the eu as a whole a unique competitive advantage. i vote in favour of this report, because what we need in europe is a more circular economy, where all resources are managed more efficiently throughout their life cycle, taking note of the fact that using resources more efficiently would reduce european resource dependency, would bring savings in material costs, would generate new business activity, and would create new jobs in our member states.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is crucial that europe moves away from its dependence on imported resources and imported materials. the shift towards a zero-waste economy would significantly decrease this dependence as well as aid in meeting the environmental targets that the union has committed to on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ the unsustainable use of resources is both causing environmental damage and posing an economic risk and continuing in this course would lead to an ecological and economic impasse, therefore moving towards an ambitious circular economy and resource efficiency is a solution to the ecological dilemma we are faced with and to the economic challenges europe is struggling with. on top of that it can bring major economic benefits for our citizens, improve our competitiveness, re-industrialise europe and enhance our standards of living only by decoupling economic growth from resource use. having said that, however, i also think that we need to ensure that any new targets and measures are realistic, feasible and implementable by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to replace the 1987 regulation concerning the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed originating from within the eu or imported from third countries, according to the location and circumstances of the nuclear accident or emergency. this regulation was first established following the chernobyl disaster. the report mainly calls for a change in legal basis, thus fully involves the parliament as co-legislator and strengthens the role of the commission in the implementation stage of the legislation
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this motion for resolution as it continues to further strengthen consumer protection within the european union. consumers have increasingly become more conscious of the food products they wish to acquire. through these amendments the regulation is changed so as to give parliament the power of co-decision. this right will enable the parliament to be more effective and improve the lives of the citizens. in this case, the levels of radioactive contamination of food were set by euratom experts while the legal basis was changed to reflect the parliament’s power of codecision. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination following a nuclear accident. the eu is in strong need of up-to-date legal instruments that include flexible, incident-specific decision-making procedures to address situations like those that occurred in the wake of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima. the ep report calls for the establishing of the lowest maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination, for more intense consultation with independent experts when reviewing maximum levels, for adapting classification following new scientific evidence and also for strengthening compliance controls and penalties for non-compliance. as this report aims at protecting human health in the aftermath of a nuclear accident i have given my support for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to apply the regular legislative procedure on matters of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs. as it currently stands, the parliament needs only be consulted and this report would give the parliament the power of co-decision on a matter of public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because for me food safety is the ultimate objective of the council regulation. therefore a change of legal base is appropriate to give the european parliament the power of co-decision and an appropriate say in the protection of public health.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the scope of improving access to capital markets as a move towards supporting further investment and growth and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution as i also fully support the principles that underpin the capital markets union in order to improve access to finance for smes and access markets directly. on the other hand, i would not agree that in order to achieve this target, action would be needed by member states relating specifically to taxation policy, as coordination of some tax reforms fall strictly under the exclusive competence of member states.
in writing. ‒ the report is the european parliament’s feedback to the european commission initiative on establishing a capital markets union among the 28 member states. it includes measures for the capital markets to finance long-term investment and to ensure the highest investor protection standards. as the capital markets union is aimed at cutting the costs of raising capital, also for smes, and at helping to reduce our very high dependence on bank funding, i have supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it stresses the importance of utilising a european approach to developing a capital markets union (cmu). the resolution stresses that the commission should strengthen the diversification of funding sources and investments in european businesses. the union should not merely replicate its cmu from other parts of the world but learn from their experiences of weathering the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final parliament resolutions on building a capital markets union, which stresses that an eu capital markets union (cmu) should provide a new, more efficient way to channel savings into small business ventures and protect cross-border investors in the eu. the resolutions also call for the strengthening of creditor protection and the provision of high-quality, easily comparable financial information on firms seeking crowd funding or peer-to-peer loans across borders. i also support the idea that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and retail investors need financial education to help them avoid risky investments and better inform them of the range of products on the market, such as equity or corporate bonds. last but not least, the resolution focuses on important issues such as helping smes to raise money on financial markets, making regulatory requirements sme-friendly, procedures simple and the administrative burden proportionate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i believe that in view of the challenges the eu is currently facing, eu security needs to be tackled seriously and the wording in the resolution does not reflect in my view the best way forward. i believe that through this resolution we are limiting the possibility for the police authorities to tackle criminality in all its forms including terrorism. without legal instruments, the police cannot fulfil their job effectively.
in writing. ‒ this report is reacting on the european commission’s communication on the european security agenda for the period 2015-2020. it outlines the priorities for supporting member states’ cooperation in tackling security threats and strengthening the common efforts in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. the commission identified three pressing challenges it wants to specifically concentrate on: preventing terrorism and countering radicalisation, fighting organised crime, and fighting cybercrime. i believe that the eu’s focus on these particular aspects of security is crucial; hence, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the resolution on the european agenda on security. the final text did not sufficiently safeguard citizens’ rights to safety and security.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the parliament resolution on the european security strategy because i consider that in order to respond to the new pressing challenges and threats to the union’s internal security, such as terrorism, radicalisation, cross-border organised crime and cybercrime, europe needs to go beyond the capacity of any individual member state and needs to coordinate eu security policy between all member states, eu institutions and agencies, civil society and law enforcement authorities. having said that, however, we should always have a clear division of tasks between the eu level and the national level, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am seriously concerned at the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen and to underscore through this resolution the eu’s continuing commitment to support yemen and the yemeni people for its unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and to stand by the people of yemen. i particularly call on the vp/hr, together with the member states, to gather support within the un for a grand international plan to secure yemen’s water supply, since such a move could be essential in bringing a potential peace process to a successful conclusion and giving the population the prospect of being able to improve agriculture, feed themselves and rebuild the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it expresses the parliament’s serious concern at the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen and urges all warring parties to put an end to the violence. the motion also reaffirms parliament’s strong support for the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen. it condemns the destabilising and violent unilateral actions taken by the houthis and condemns the air strikes and naval blockade imposed on yemen, which have led to thousands of deaths. this violence has further destabilised yemen and created conditions conducive to the expansion of terrorist organisations such as isis. finally it also urges all yemeni parties, in particular the houthis, to work towards resolving their differences through dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament resolution on the situation in yemen which addresses the current crisis as a result of a failure by successive governments to meet the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. i agreed with the argument that this failure has created the conditions for an outbreak of violent conflict by failing to establish an inclusive government and fair power sharing, and systematically ignoring the country’s many tribal tensions, widespread insecurity and economic paralysis. therefore, i call on all parties to end the use of violence immediately and on the eu to reaffirm its commitment to continuing to support yemen and the yemeni people.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report aptly highlights the current alarming security situation which is developing in the middle east. the report highlights the need to address the root causes of the rapidly deteriorating situation across the mena region through a holistic and ambitious approach and to support the international campaign against isil/daesh. the stability and security of the mena region are fundamental to the security of the eu. my main concern with voting against this report was a reference to abortion in the text.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the eu member states to mobilise their efforts to safeguard the european citizens from any threats from isis and other emerging terrorist groups. the report condemns the continued violation of the right to freedom of religion or belief in the region. therefore, the report also stresses that there is a need to effectively combat terrorism and calls on the european union to step up its efforts to safeguard religious minorities and providing a safe environment. further to that, i am in favour of sustainable economic development in the area. the report stresses the fundamental importance of the fight against corruption in mena countries to attract european investment in this area.
in writing. ‒ the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability gives high priority to the fight against isis and other extremist groups, and expresses the need for the eu to step up support for the political transition in tunisia and the need to support the development of various other civil societies. the report in question gives importance to the situation in much of the south of europe’s neighbouring areas and the consequences it can have on the region as a whole. because i believe that this report properly identifies the major security challenges in the region and proposes balanced and realistic approaches i have supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this overall consensual report which covers the most relevant topics related to the middle east and north africa region, such as the fight against isis and other extremist groups, the need for the eu to step up support for the political transition in tunisia, support the development of civil societies in those countries, and the need for an inclusive security environment which takes into account legitimate concerns of all sides. i also support the balance struck in the report on the israel-palestine issue and the recommendations calling also for a political, peaceful transition to put an end to the civil war in syria (but assad cannot be part of syria’s future). having said that, however, i did not support any references to abortion or ‘sexual and reproductive and health-care services’, as i think that this is strictly within the national competences of each country.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report and voted in favour as i agree with the views expressed on the review of the european neighbourhood policy, with the exception of the reference to conditionality in relation to, for example, the reform process within the enp countries. i believe that the revised enp should also be able to provide a quick, flexible and adequate response to the situation on the ground, whilst also putting forward an ambitious strategic vision for developing relations with the neighbouring countries within both a bilateral and a multilateral framework. the enp is also an essential part of the eu’s foreign policy and is a substantial part of the eu’s foreign policy credibility and global positioning.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the importance of the enp and stresses that the enp is an essential part of the eu’s foreign policy. it must remain a single policy incorporating the vast range of diplomatic, security and humanitarian instruments. it also stresses the importance of safeguarding the fundamental values of human rights, the rule of law, democracy, freedom, equality and respect for human dignity on which the eu is founded. the report states that it must remain at the core of the revised policy. the commission must also prepare a clear communication strategy in the enp countries to increase its presence in the partner countries through social media and audiovisual means. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report gives the european parliament’s reaction to the review of the european neighbourhood policy. it welcomes the initiative as timely and necessary and insists that the reviewed enp must be more politically driven, strategic, flexible/focused/differentiated, and coherent with the eu’s values, principles and interests. it stresses that the enp needs to remain a single policy, while calling for the appointment of eu special representatives for the east and the south dimensions. it also recognizes that while the neighbourhood and enlargement policies are separate, it considers that a membership perspective must be sustained. more so, in this report the parliament emphasises the ‘need to focus on strengthening and consolidating ... respect for diversity and the rights of minorities, including ... the rights of lgbti persons.’ thus, as i agree with the various provisions called for i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and support the kukan report on the review process of the european neighbourhood policy, which highlights the need to make european neighbourhood policy more strategic, efficient and flexible, always respecting the core values on which the eu is founded. the enp should not be a bureaucratic process but a politically-driven one serving the purposes of peace and stability in the neighbourhood but also promoting democracy and the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the report also stresses a very important point for me on the mediterranean partnership, which is crucially important for the current situation in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it maps out the needs for the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and other related rights in the information society such as the need for a copyright reform, not only to improve the digital single market, but also to facilitate access to knowledge and culture throughout the eu. as a precursor to the upcoming copyright reform proposal, it also calls on the commission to consider a wide variety of measures to bring copyright law up to speed with changing realities and improve cross-border access to our cultural diversity. i also voted in favour of the deletion of the contentious issue concerning the requirement of consent to use photographs taken in the public domain when these are used for commercial purpose.
in writing. ‒ this report evaluates the implementation of the 2001 directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of ‪‎copyright. the report deals with a number of positive ideas including creators’ remuneration. however in an earlier version of the report there was a controversial reference that in real terms would have restricted the freedom of ‪‎panorama, i.e. taking pictures of public buildings/spaces without prior authorisation. as promised, i voted against this restriction, namely the freedom of people to take photos in public spaces including photos of architectural sites when on holiday, and i voted so that people will be able to use these pictures freely even on the internet. however, i voted in favour of the report as a whole as the rest of the report gives fair rights to artists.
in writing. ‒ the text of the reda report is overall very progressive including paragraphs reinforcing the importance of copyright. the only element that was controversial was paragraph 46 that restricts the ‘freedom of panorama’. the paragraph requires that for commercial use any photographs, video footage or other images of works which are permanently located in physical public places should always be subject to prior authorisation from the authors or any proxy acting for them. this paragraph as it stands restricts the so-called freedom of panorama to non-commercial use only. my personal opinion was to support any amendment that aims to change the reference to non-commercial uses and to fix the issues with the eu freedom of panorama. i am in favour of absolute freedom to photograph and publish photos of public buildings, monuments and art and i will support any amendments or deletions in the report which will reflect this position, therefore i have voted against paragraph 46 but in favour if the final report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the european endowment for democracy (eed) role in fostering and encouraging democratisation and deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation. the eed aims at helping actors of change and emerging players such as political parties, ngos, trade unions and other partners. it also strives for developing cooperation with civic activist groups related to religious communities, including persecuted religious minorities. the report also calls for all the member states and the commission to enhance their contributions to the eed.
in writing. ‒ it is a positive thing to note that the eed’s track record is good seeing that the current international situation makes it very difficult to have such a positive record. it is also a good thing to see that the eed is adding value to already established democracies within the eu. we must continue supporting the eed. it is important to ensure that the parliament and the eed continue working hand-in-hand. it is also important to ensure that the eed remains autonomous at all times. the eed must also continue working with other organisations so as to be able to have a better reach. innovation must also be at the forefront of the eed’s agenda so as to better help in the process of democracy assistance.
in writing. ‒ this report makes a general positive evaluation after two years’ existence of the european endowment for democracy which has been created to promote the european values of freedom and democracy. the eed remains an independent private law foundation with its seat in brussels which is co-financed by the european union and the member states, and it engages in regular consultations with relevant eu institutions and other actors in order to avoid duplication and ensure synergy. the report puts stronger emphasis on working with different groups suffering from social exclusion or political marginalisation like women’s movements, lgbti human rights activists, emerging political movements, trade unions, bloggers and new media activists. as i support the idea behind this structure and agree with the proposed way forward, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report evaluation of activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed) that makes a general positive evaluation after two years’ existence of the european endowment for democracy which has been created to promote the european values of freedom and democracy. i agree with the rapporteur of the report that in order to sustain and further develop the effectiveness of the eed, it is vital to ensure long-term, sufficient, stable, transparent and predictable funding. the report also places a stronger emphasis on groups suffering from social exclusion or political marginalisation by supporting groups such as women’s movements, lgbti human rights activists, emerging political movements, trade unions, bloggers and new media activists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am concerned about the serious political situation that has developed in burundi. although according to both the constitution of burundi and the arusha peace and reconciliation agreement a president can serve only two terms, president nkurunziza announced that he was running for a third term, plunging the country into turmoil and triggering widespread protests and a failed military coup. this resolution brings to the fore the deteriorating security and economic situation in burundi, which has serious consequences for the country’s people and the region. violations of human rights have been rampant, the currency has depreciated and unemployment has increased, whilst tax revenues have decreased. the resolution further calls on the high representative to prepare a list of targeted measures against the ruling class, for the commission to urgently reassess eu aid to divert it from the central budget to support to civil society and humanitarian aid, and highlights that both parties are bound by the cotonou agreement, in particular regarding the respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the european commission and the eu’s high representative to take appropriate actions and to prepare a list of targeted restrictive measures such as a visa ban and asset freezing against those responsible for acts of violence, repression and serious human rights violations in burundi. it also calls for the reassessment of eu aid with a view to diverting it and increasing financial support to civil society and humanitarian assistance. i believe that a lasting political solution for burundi can be found only through dialogue between the different parties and civil society. meanwhile, we have to make sure that the eu helps the local communities and does not end up helping financially the parties at war. hence i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in recent months the political and humanitarian situation in burundi has deteriorated dramatically. tensions between the government and opposition and civil organisations have been rising, with many lives lost and violence flaring up. almost 130 000 people have now fled the country, placing great strain on neighbouring countries. the crisis now has the potential to cause huge regional instability in an already fragile region. therefore i supported the resolution, which calls for further action against those responsible in burundi, including possible targeted sanctions and asset freezes, as well as greater support for the humanitarian situation in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the 20th anniversary of the act of genocide and ethnic cleansing that took place in and around srebrenica during the bosnian war and which expresses its condolences to and solidarity with the families of the victims, many of whom are living without knowing the final fate of their dear ones. this should serve as a reminder of the dangers of extreme forms of nationalism and intolerance in society, further exacerbated in the framework of war. the resolution also urges the development of educational and cultural programmes that promote the understanding of these atrocities and raise awareness about the need to nurture peace and promote human rights and interreligious tolerance. it further commends the important work done by the icty and highlights the need for measures to accelerate the trials and appeals and bring them to an end.
in writing. ‒ 11 july 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the worst act of genocide and crime against humanity that took place in europe, during the bosnian war, since 1945. this resolution expresses its condolences to and solidarity with the families of the victims and condemns in the strongest possible terms the genocide in srebrenica. it also solemnly declares that such horrendous crimes must never happen again and states that it will do everything in its power to prevent such acts from recurring while rejecting any denial of the genocide. condemning what happened, admitting what it really was and vowing to do all we can to deny a repetition are the least we can do in front of such deep human suffering experienced by the affected population. i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported and have co-signed the parliament resolution condemning in the strongest possible terms the genocide in srebrenica of 11 july 1995 saying that ‘such horrendous crimes must never happen again’. the resolution commemorated and honoured all the victims of the massacre and ‘all the atrocities during the wars in the former yugoslavia’ and expressed solidarity with victims’ families, many of which are still left without final confirmation of the fate of their relatives.
mr president, the protection of fundamental rights is one of the basic values on which the european union is founded. in short, this value represents respect for the person and his dignity, whoever he is and wherever he is. there is certainly no shortage of political discourse by leaders of member states who, acting as they do, always say that they are acting with respect for the fundamental rights of their citizens. however, there is a sea of conflict between political rhetoric and the way of governance. it is in that sea that many politicians lose the moral fiber and the courage to take decisions according to basic principles without which they would be violating citizens' rights instead of protecting them. it is true that economic fragility, social pressure, and emergency situations make the responsibility for protecting fundamental rights more onerous, but often violations of these same rights stem from a lack of moral fibre and a lack of political responsibility on the part of those running government. european citizens demand that the institutions of the european union act to protect them as leaders of member states adopt bad governance and governance that goes against the principles of accountability, transparency, justice, solidarity and the rule of law. the union already has a mechanism that commits it to be a protector of fundamental rights. institutions do not need another mechanism to fulfil this responsibility, but it takes more courage, and less shame, to use this mechanism.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, even though he is not here, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for this very extensive and welcome report, which also takes account of the opinions of the committee on fisheries and the committee on employment and social affairs. it is an important contribution to the eu’s blue growth agenda. it recognises the significant potential of the blue economy to create jobs and growth, and stresses the importance of action by the eu and its member states to unlock this potential. the report stresses that the sustainability dimension must be fully embedded in our approach, and i can confirm that the commission is wholeheartedly in agreement with this approach. we must indeed protect, restore and maintain coastal and oceanic ecosystems, biodiversity, resilience and productivity, keep the oceans free from pollutants and litter and apply the precautionary principle. cross-sectoral and inter-disciplinary research and rolling-out of innovation will be essential to achieve these goals, along with support from member states. we are also looking at promoting innovation in both emerging and more traditional maritime sectors. the focus on marine knowledge and seabed mapping, the creation of the marine research information platform and the work on developing skills will boost innovation and job creation over the whole varied range of interacting sectors, including existing industries. for instance, there are two specific articles in the european maritime and fisheries fund regulation which focus on innovation and sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture; and horizon 2020, the framework programme for research innovation, supports a considerable amount of research in the traditional sectors. the european fund for strategic investments also offers possibilities for projects with a higher risk profile. i was very happy to read that the report asks for a proper assessment of the size of the blue economy and appraisal of its financial needs. we are already working on this. we have now made some first estimates of the size of the blue economy and will be comparing notes with statisticians and economists from member states later this month. solid figures will no doubt also help us to measure progress in driving the blue industry forward. we are also working on delivering some other key points of your report. for example, we are considering how to close the skills gap in the blue economy, and calls for proposals will be issued in 2016 to tackle this. we are also making progress on developing an information platform to make the results of marine and maritime research more easily available. finally, i could not agree more that a global level playing field is needed to further strengthen the eu’s position as a global leader in a sustainable blue economy. i have launched an international public consultation on what the eu needs to do to improve the governance of the oceans, including ensuring a sustainable use of ocean resources and guaranteeing a level playing field. i encourage you to contribute to this consultation. in conclusion, the commission very much welcomes this report and looks forward to working closely with the european parliament in realising the full potential of the blue economy.
in writing.– our seas are extremely diverse one from the other and a ‘one-size-fits-all’ policy will definitely defy the purpose for which we are standing here today. however, there is one common factor. our seas offer an extreme vast economic and job creation potential in a period of time when we need to create both employment demand and supply. we need to ensure that whilst maximising the potential of our seas we ensure the protection of our maritime environment from any damaging effects including the proliferation of further plastics and micro-plastics, which is an issue of utmost urgency. and issue a final message to the commission to heed our call, and put all already existing policy and strategy formulation bodies related to the blue economy under one authority. it is only when we have real coordination that we can reap the benefits of a proper blue economy.
in writing. ‒ since the eu has already consolidated the principle of a ban on forced labour in its primary legislation, i gave my consent for the authorisation for member states to ratify the ilo’s protocol of 2014 in order to prevent forced labour and in the same time provide protection for victims.
in writing. ‒ the report in question gives the council parliament’s consent to authorise member states to ratify an update of the international labour organization’s forced labour convention with regard to social policy. the protocol includes updated measures on how to prevent forced labour and provide support for victims. hence i have voted in favour of this procedural report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in favour of this resolution because it provides protection against forced labour and ensures social and economic rights, including remedial actions should these rights be infringed. the resolution also proposes anti-corruption strategies such as transparency, empowerment and initiatives for reducing crime such as human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the social policy on the ilo forced labour convention. the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, is an important tool for the defence of human rights. nevertheless, member states need authorisation by the union to open negotiations as well as to ratify international agreements when parts of the agreements fall in areas of eu competence. hence it is not acceptable that member states entered negotiations on the protocol without prior authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agreed with the rapporteur’s position that the circumstance does not cause political damage to the member, thus it falls within article 9 of protocol no 7 under which immunity can be waived if there is no serious damage to the position of mr korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report requesting the waiver of the immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, member of the european parliament, who exceeded the permitted speed limit of 50 km/h by 32 km/h according to a speed camera located in that area. this conduct constitutes an offence under article 92a of the polish act of 20 may 1971 establishing a code of offences in connection with article 20(1) of the polish road traffic act of 20 june 1997. at the plenary sitting on 15 april 2015, the president announced, under rule 9(1) of the rules of procedure, that he had received a letter from the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment which suggested rejecting the council position. however i agree with the creation of a new database, which would oblige carriers to supply the commission with the information on container movements to create a central database for import and export data and to create a centralised repository for transit-related data. i believe in the need to clamp down on customs-related fraud, while safeguarding data protection and trade secrets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal to reject the council’s position because i support negotiations advancing to a further stage.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the second reading report on the commission proposal that amends regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between national authorities so as to improve the detection, investigation and prevention of customs-related fraud by increasing the exchange of information and the available evidence, and improving the functioning of the established system. the main innovation of the commission proposal was to create a new database, which would oblige carriers to supply the commission with information on container movements, to create a central database for import and export data, and to create a centralised repository for transit-related data. the creation of the aforementioned databases proved to be the most controversial point due to data protection and trade secrets concerns on parliament’s side. in its first reading position, parliament suggested only that import and transit data should be included in the databases, while the council and the commission wanted to include all data. a compromise was found to include export data too, but only of product categories falling under excise duty, as these are particularly sensitive to fraud. these products include especially tobacco and alcohol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report taking into consideration the commission proposal as adjusted to meet the recommendations suggested by the wto regarding the basic regulations from 2009 on trade in seal products. according to the basic regulations, there are two main exceptions: products from hunts conducted by inuit or other indigenous communities (the ic exception) and products from hunts conducted for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources on a small scale and non-profit basis (the mrm exception). i agree with the commission’s proposal to remove the mrm exception and present new considerations for the ic exception.
in writing. ‒ this report further limits the trade in seal products in the european union; in fact, there will be fewer exemptions to the eu ban on the trade in seal products. the only exception which will stand is the trade of seal products derived from hunting by inuit. inuits are culturally similar indigenous peoples inhabiting the arctic regions of greenland, canada and alaska. i voted in favour of this report as it further protects seals and provides our citizens with further information.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the proposal because it protects native wildlife by implementing further bans on the trade of seal products, the only exception being for indigenous communities under strict criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on trade in seal products, which amends commission regulation no 1007/2009 concerning the ban of trade in seal products, in order to comply with a wto ruling. regulation 1007/2009 introduced a general ban on placing seal products on the european union’s market. the ban included two exceptions, the so called inuit exception and the so called mrm-exception (maritime resource management), which allowed seal products to be placed on the market if they originated from seals hunted by inuit or as a result of maritime resource management. the mrm-exception has been mainly used by the member states located in the baltic sea. canada and norway challenged the ban and its exceptions in the wto, arguing that they are discriminatory. the wto dispute settlement body ruled that while the ban itself does not violate wto regulations, the mrm exception is indeed of a discriminatory nature. concerning the inuit exception, the wto ruled that while in principle it is justified, the specific formulation was arbitrary and should thus be changed. the decision has to be implemented by 18 october 2015.
in writing. ‒ i agreed with and voted in favour of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) on the commission proposal, which shows that people are still uncomfortable with consuming food resulting from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with the prohibition on cloning animals for farming purposes in the eu and also the prohibition on the import of cloned animals from outside the eu. i am not in favour of products from the cloning of animals or their descendants, and this applies also to imports. as i support banning the cloning of all animals, their descendants, and products from them, including imports, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mandate because i do not support the cloning of animals as a food-production technique.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a ban on the cloning of farm animals. cloning has major consequences for animal welfare and raises serious concerns about the long-term effects on food safety, consumer protection and ethical issues. i therefore oppose the cloning of animals and voted to ban the cloning of farm animals in europe, and i would introduce a number of other restrictions, such as banning embryos and semen from clones and their descendants.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for recognition of abortion in life-saving circumstances. i have voted against these calls as i remain in favour of the right to life. furthermore, issues surrounding abortion reflect social, cultural, as well as personal beliefs and values. for this purpose they fall outside eu competence. the report does contain valid proposals for the protection of human rights in the eu such as freedom of expression, protection of children from abuse, rights of persons with disabilities, fighting corruption and prison conditions. these represent fundamental principles in a modern democracy and emanate from the value of respect for the person. the report proposes a new mechanism for protection of human rights in the eu. i do not believe this is necessary. the eu institutions must however not shy away from using the mechanism available to them. while i remain against abortion and voted against the proposals in this regard, i am not against the protection of children or persons with disabilities from abuse, am in favour of fighting corruption and of freedom of the media and other rights which this report seeks to strengthen. consequently, i have abstained on the final vote on the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the situation of fundamental rights in the eu between 2013 and 2014. the resolution raises concerns about the impact of austerity measures on fundamental rights in the eu, and comments on the rights of children, lgbti people, religious and ethnic minorities and homeless people; it also addresses the issues of freedom of speech, media freedom, anti-terrorism measures and hate speech. i voted in favour of the report as a whole as i believe that it is crucial to analyse the state of fundamental rights in the european union, especially if our continent still wants to be a global leader in the fight for human dignity. as always i did not vote in favour of the paragraphs related to abortion.
in writing. ‒ while this report contained aspects aimed at ending violations of fundamental rights, the final version of the report contained unacceptable references to sexual and reproductive health and rights, which may be interpreted as the right to abortion. therefore, i could not support the full text.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the situation of the fundamental rights in the eu (2013-2014), which includes a section on institutional questions, and states that the parliament ‘expects to see an internal strategy on fundamental rights based on article 2 of the tfeu adopted in the near future’, and explains that such a strategy should be accompanied by an action plan and include cooperation with civil society and the fundamental rights agency. the report also looks into thematic issues, including equality, calls to implement the anti-discrimination directive and ‘solidarity in the crisis’, highlighting the negative impact on economic, civil, social and cultural rights of the financial and economic and sovereign debt crisis, resulting in increasing unemployment, poverty, precarious working and living conditions, as well as social exclusion and isolation. nevertheless, i have never supported and voted against any references to sexual and reproductive health, rights, services and abortion, which in my opinion fall strictly under a competence of the member states. therefore, i have voted against paragraph 68 and recital an and abstained on paragraph 69.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agreed with the points raised in it on the monitoring of the latest commissioner hearing process and also propose some considerations in order to change hearing process procedures. considering public hearing of candidate members of the european commission gives an opportunity for parliament and the public to acknowledge each candidate's priority and qualification. i believe improving procedures will certainly increase public hearing process to become more effective.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to strengthen the process through which commissioners are appointed by focusing on procedure which leads proposed commissioners to the oral hearing by members of parliament. this procedure is important as it allows members of parliament, as democratically elected representatives of the people, a method of scrutiny over what is often a rather political process of appointment. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report of the parliament seeks to learn from the experience during the most recent commission hearing of 2014 and proposes ways by which to improve procedures. amongst the proposals put forward there is one for the introduction of a clear deadline for member states to put forward candidates in order to allow time for the allocation of portfolios and hearings; another suggestion is for each member state to put forward a female candidate and male candidate of equal footing for consideration. having been part of the 2014 hearing process i believe that the deadline and the gender balance proposals make a lot of sense, while further transparency should be also welcomed, hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report because it encourages transparency and accountability within the european parliament by proposing improvements to the hearing procedures of european commissioners.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on commissioner hearings, lessons to be taken from the 2014 process, which clarifies the procedures and practices for the future commissioner hearings.
in writing. ‒ the eu cannot breach the rights of citizens in third countries when doing surveillance or counter—terrorism work, otherwise it would be contradicting its own policies adopted at home. this is one of the main arguments being put forward by this report. the report includes other requests such as an international protection for whistleblowers as well as national protection laws and the appointment of a un envoy for digital liberties and data protection. i will keep on pushing for further eu action on counter terrorism but i can never be against measures that safeguard basic rights, be it here at home or in any country in the world. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which underlines that the surveillance of communications, as such, interferes with the rights to privacy and expression, if conducted outside an adequate legal framework. it requests, among others, the commission to ensure coherence between the eu’s external actions and its internal policies related to icts and to promote the democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries. the report also notes the fact that security measures, including counterterrorism measures, are increasingly used as pretext for violations of the right of the privacy and for clamping down on the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists and underlines, that on the contrary, respect for fundamental rights is an essential element in successful counter-terrorism policies, including the use of digital surveillance technologies. the report includes some requests such as an international protection for whistle-blower's as well as national protection laws and the appointment of a un envoy for digital liberties and data protection; finally, it requests internet access to be recognised as a human right.
in writing. ‒ in order to prevent the growth of cap budget, i agree with the need to strike a balance between less administrative burden and effective financial control. i therefore voted in favour of this report
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the common agricultural policy of the eu, which implements a system of agricultural subsidies and proposes innovative solutions in the arrangements for the spending of cap, as at present these are too complex for the managing authorities and for the beneficiaries, especially in the new framework for cross compliance. the two new approaches put forward are: a single audit scheme with only one chain of audits from the final beneficiaries to the european union institutions, and the setting up of a flexible organisation of checks promoting performance—based controls of common agricultural policy. i agree with this approach and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it calls for a balance between efficiency and accountability. certain regulations have become overcomplicated and inefficient, and this report’s objective is to develop a single audit scheme that simplifies controls.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the performance-based controls of the common agricultural policy, which is essential for protecting the eu’s financial interests.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the fact that family run business constitutes more than 60% of all enterprises and up to 50% of private sector jobs in eu, i voted in favour of this report asking the commission to address the challenges the family run businesses have to face and to introduce the test in the part of the assessment. i believe that they contribute to local communities so they should deserve opportunities to access to business or finances transfer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that family businesses are an important player in the european economy. this report deals with the definition of ‘family business’ in europe and the effect of such definition in terms of funding opportunities and exemptions. more than 60% of all enterprises in the european union are family-run, and they account for about 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. however, family businesses that no longer meet the definition of smes, but are also far from being major corporations, are ineligible for specific funding opportunities and exemptions. many family businesses try desperately to remain below recruitment and turnover thresholds set by the commission criteria for smes, thus halting further growth. the report aims at getting policymakers’ attention to this important group of entrepreneurs and to provide assistance where it is needed. it mentions a ‘family business test’, which would determine whether proposed changes to eu law have an impact on family businesses. i believe that family businesses are a major player which we need to further safeguard.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it recognises the value of family run businesses as stable contributors to job creation in local economies and addresses specific challenges they face.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the family business in europe, which states that more than 60% of all enterprises in the european union are family-run, and they account for about 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. the important point in this report is rather to draw policymakers’ attention to this important group of entrepreneurs and to provide assistance where it is needed. one approach could be (as a transitional measure) to introduce a ‘family business test’, to be performed as part of the impact assessment, in order to determine whether proposed changes to eu law have an impact on family businesses and their structures and, if so, to identify them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the rapporteur requesting for precise objectives and making marine data more accessible. i believe that the sea and the coast tend to drive a positive impact to the economy, thus encouraging research and innovation will certainly increase jobs and growth
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with a new eu-wide effort to tap into the opportunities which the blue economy can offer through the creation of new enterprises and new jobs. i agree with actions related to the collection of data: both scientific data related to the seas and oceans and also data related to all present and potential maritime careers in order to better assess job opportunities. from an environmental standpoint, the report calls for preserving the natural marine environments and biodiversity, decarbonising maritime transport and diversifying energy sources, thus contributing to climate and energy targets via the use of energy potential contained in waves, tides and seaweed. furthermore, the report calls for an appropriate financial framework for the blue economy and for the relevant agencies to be brought together under one existing agency which can coordinate all efforts. having been the rapporteur for the s&d group on the topic, where i have also spearheaded the push for the conglomeration of all blue economy efforts under one agency, i have happily supported the final version of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it encourages a balanced approach to the development of emerging marine industries. whilst innovation should be supported, it is essential that our sensitive marine ecosystems are protected to ensure sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors linked to the seas and oceans, spanning traditional and emerging sectors including for instance fisheries, aquaculture, ports and logistics, tourism, shipbuilding and ship-repairing, protection of the coastline, prospecting for, and exploitation of, offshore mineral and energy resources, biotechnology. oceans and seas can be source of growth, jobs, food, medicine and energy while protecting ecosystems for generations to come if they are managed in a responsible and sustainable manner. however, in order to make this possible, more research, knowledge, skills and data about our seas and oceans are needed. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report on the research and innovation in the blue economy because it is essential for creating jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that promoting youth entrepreneurship will be beneficial for citizens especially young people. they can adapt what they have gained from education and training in professional and private lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with entrepreneurship education, a policy area which i have been personally working on over the last months. acquiring entrepreneurial skills has proven to have very positive impact on individuals as it helps increasing their career ambitions and equips them with important skills in life. thus it is very encouraging to see the eu push for further focus on this area. however the initial report was too business-oriented and the s&d group proposed changes that heavily improved the report. these included promoting entrepreneurial education at all stages of life and in both formal and informal settings, as opposed to the original proposal that only dealt with primary and secondary years. the final version of the report also calls for development of educational standards for entrepreneurship education and their integration into national curricula. i believe that it is crucial that youth entrepreneurship becomes an integral part of the political strategy to support today’s youth generation in terms of eu goals for growth, employment, education and social inclusion. hence i supported this important report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training, because it is crucial that youth entrepreneurship becomes an integral part of the political strategy to support today’s youth generation in terms of eu goals for growth, employment, education and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the scope of an integrated approach towards the domain of cultural heritage. moreover, establishing cooperation and coordination among dgs within european commission is necessary and setting up a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage. in addition, cooperation between local communities and private sector in activities will definitely enhance cultural heritage as well. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since cultural heritage is a significant source of jobs and revenues, which are crucial points to be considered in the present economic context, and because the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it also proposes alternative governance models to better involve local communities, civil society and the private sector in both the preservation and promotion activities related to cultural heritage and digitisation of cultural heritage. i agree with making the running of cultural heritage more of a societal endeavour rather than just a state remit and that we should find ways and means by which to help beneficiaries find easier access to funding for cultural heritage initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it organises a funding structure for the preservation and visibility of cultural heritage and encourages involvement of local communities in the private sector to increase tourism.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report towards integrated approach to cultural heritage, which, i believe, is one of the pillars of the european culture and needs to be preserved and fostered through an integrated and coordinated policy in order to preserve it for future generations, as well as to realise its potential as a source of sustainable jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european citizens’ initiative which is a new mechanism for participatory democracy in the eu. having a positive vote for the right2water was of paramount importance, particularly since this report recognises that water is not a commercial product. it states that water is a human right. i am in favour of excluding water and sanitation services from the internal market. i share the views highlighted in this report and i support the call for access to water to be treated as a basic human right.
in writing. ‒ access to water is essential to life on earth and must be recognised as a fundamental human right to be shared by humankind. that is why, i voted today in favour of a report on the european citizens’ initiative (eci) on the human right to water and sanitation. this is the first-ever successful eci, a tool that was launched to help european citizens engage in european debate. my vote supports the demands of 2 million european citizens, that water should never be treated as a commodity, but as a common good. access to water and sanitation should be recognised as a human right across all relevant eu.
we are talking about italy and greece today, but the fact that hungary, austria and germany are now affected shows more than ever that this is not just a mediterranean issue. this is not a problem that only the countries of the south of europe have to address. and we've been saying that. it's a problem of every country and only countries together can begin to address what's happening. it is not really a european issue, but a global one that requires international cooperation to even begin to address the conflicts that exist. today we are discussing a system, which could be the beginning of a european migration policy. but, despite this, certain european leaders continued to resist this system, and insisted on a voluntary system. history has shown that voluntary mechanisms do not work. we have only to look at what happened in the case of the pilot project on relocation from malta, and here is my appeal to the european leaders, to the council, even though they are not here. the same applies to the dublin regulation, which we have long heard needs to be revised, and i wonder how long we will have to wait for the revision of this regulation, which is a total failure. the refugee crisis we are witnessing today does not seem to be going away anytime soon. long-term thinking mechanisms are therefore needed for this, european solutions and international solutions.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you for your valuable contribution to this debate, it was very interesting for me to hear the views of the committees and political groups and yours personally. as regards the interventions on mr deutsch's report on the sixth cohesion report, i fully agree that we must do everything we can to ensure that programmes financed with european money will enable the countries and members of the region to generate economic growth and jobs. this year is a vital year and next year will also be the first year in which we will be able to see the concrete results of the regulations and legislation you have adopted here on the use of european funds for the period 2014-2020. i wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the last ten months, in fact in the ten months of my mandate - since i took over as commissioner for regional policy - i have visited 20 member states and had meetings with dozens of representatives of national, regional and local authorities, as well as with you in person, in committees or in other meetings. i visited dozens of successful projects and met beneficiaries who had success stories in accessing european funds. we have seen in practice, and you know very well, taking you to your regions, to your countries, you know very well what the impact of european funds is, as you said here: new jobs created, improvements in roads, infrastructure, water, canals, internet connections, that successful programme on energy efficiency in public and private buildings. in the last 40 years since the regional development fund was set up, with the help of european funds, whole regions have developed enormously with a clear impact on the lives of the people there. that is why i want to tell you that it is quite difficult for me to understand why this cohesion policy is so attacked, because i understand - having been a member of the european parliament for eight years - i understand the differences between the political groups, but i want to tell you that, in my opinion, cohesion policy has no political colour and i think we should join forces to make it more effective and to see more exactly how the funds are implemented. i think we should be very proud of these achievements, but of course, we should learn from the mistakes of the past so that in the current era of programming, we can achieve much better results. to ensure that european funds are easily accessible to beneficiaries, simplification was a key element of cohesion policy. we have decided to set up a high-level working group which will make concrete proposals from next year onwards for both current and post-2020 programmes. on the other hand, the problem of fraud has also arisen here and we must strike the right balance between the need to simplify and the need to have very strict control over how european money is used. there are programs where 30 signatures are required and this is not a european union requirement. it is simply a measure taken by local authorities. the first meeting of the simplification working group will take place on 22 october and in this regard i am relying and we are relying in particular on your contribution and experience as members of the european parliament. another aspect we're working on is preparing for the next programming period. by the end of this year, we will present a report assessing how member states have complied with the requirements imposed through the partnership agreements. this information will be particularly relevant for future strategies and, as i said, the european parliament is a reliable partner. i'd like to say a few things to you, for example, about migration, another topic that some of you have raised. we have all seen, of course, the terrible images of migrants seeking in europe the peace, security and prosperity that they have lost in their home countries, whether it be syria, libya or eritrea. we are currently looking at how these funds and union policies could contribute to the social integration of these immigrants, but i would like to tell you that we are already contributing to a large extent to social integration through the regional development fund. i have visited, for example, the suburbs of berlin, i have visited the suburbs of paris, there are many communities that, thanks to european money, have been able to integrate, to find a job. in the netherlands, for example, we have a very nice example: a single mother, jordanian, who managed to bring traditional jordanian products and put them on the dutch market with the help of european funds, and now this mother of five, who left for a better economic situation, is able to live alone and take care of the future of her children in the netherlands. therefore, the challenges generated by the migration phenomenon can also be addressed by collaborating with member states in territorial cooperation actions through interreg programmes and macro-regional strategies. i agree with mr van nistelrooij that this crossborder cooperation between regions is becoming much more important at the moment. i am pleased to invite all of you who are interested to come to luxembourg one week from today, where the 25th anniversary of cross-border cooperation will be celebrated. i think it's a very important topic at the moment. last week there were a lot of meps in greece. i would like to say a few words: i had the pleasure of being on the regi commission last week. i believe we have a duty to do everything we can to support greece and i want to thank the members of regi once again for understanding the need to adopt the measures proposed by the commission for this country under emergency conditions and for deciding to adopt them under the simplified procedure so that the 35 billion euro will be invested in greece as soon as possible. you know, greece is one of the countries where european funds represent 75 to 80 percent of public investment. another topic raised is youth unemployment. it is a challenge that must remain a priority: over 26 million european citizens are indeed unemployed and, thanks to the youth and youth employment initiative, which we fought for together here in the european parliament and which was made possible by the determination of the european parliament, many young people will find a job in the coming years. with regard to mrs westphal's report on the urban dimension, i understand that parliament expects the commission to play an even more active role in promoting the urban agenda, but there are also separate opinions, which in practice consider it an undemocratic practice. i believe that the european union must support cities in preparing and implementing their policies. most of the challenges we face come from cities and urban areas, but that's where the solutions come from. i want to tell you and assure you that as a commissioner from the country with the largest rural area in the european union, a country i know very well, it is, i believe, my duty to defend the rural dimension as well. in a way, i agree with you that there is some contradiction in terms between the urban concentration and the need for urban concentration that we have in your legislation and the fact that we are not getting a better correlation with rural areas. i have proposed to commissioner hogen that we should see, we will also have a conference on this in october, to what extent we can contribute to rural development with our funds. urban-rural will be a conference in ireland that will allow us to see and analyse, on the basis of the legislation that you have drawn up, how we can, however, give greater attention to rural areas. i would also like to add that the riga declaration on the establishment of the urban agenda, adopted last june by all member states with the participation of the european parliament, the commission, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, is a cornerstone and i look forward to the amsterdam declaration and i said, including in my opening speech, that i appreciate the importance that the dutch presidency attaches to the urban dimension and i assure you that we will continue to work on this with the parliament, the council and the committee of the regions. i know that time is limited. i take advantage of the fact that i have only one minute left to speak and i would like to add a few words. like i said, zero tolerance for fraud. we have to strike a balance between simplification and control. crossborder cooperation - i hope i will have the opportunity again, ladies and gentlemen, to come here to talk about regional policy. as i was saying at one point, i think we need to make a grand coalition to defend this policy, which has changed people's lives for the better. i know, as i said, there are political reasons, but there are undeniable reasons: thousands of kilometers of infrastructure, schools, hospitals, tens of thousands of jobs. the thematic focuses you asked me about you yourself have set here: science, technology, smes: so i think we have to think about where europe would have been if all the member states had started using these funds 40 years ago, when this regional development fund was established. you are right - disparities, social inequalities have deepened. but what would the european union have been and what would these regions have looked like if it had not been for these investments? let's see greece, take pictures, photographs, of what greece looked like before it joined the european union and what it looks like now. it was the last century. so let us not underestimate the importance that european funds have had in our countries, in our regions and for our citizens. thank you very much and i rely on your support wholeheartedly.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i wish to thank mr kukan for his report. it reflects, usefully and insightfully, the achievements of the follow-up to the 2012 european year for active ageing. firstly, the european year 2012 has contributed towards firmly establishing active ageing on the european agenda and on many national policy agendas. it is now widely recognised that active ageing is key to preserving solid welfare systems and strong solidarity between the generations in our own ageing societies. secondly, the european year 2012 left an important legacy in the form of the guiding principles for active ageing and solidarity between the generations, and in the form of the active ageing index, a tool to measure untapped potential and the successes or failures of our active ageing policies. the commission is committed to promoting active ageing, and it does this in various ways. many of them are referred to in the report. let me mention some of them. first, in the context of the european semester, the commission calls on the member states most concerned to take measures that will raise the labour force participation of older workers. indeed, this is a success story. the employment rate of older workers has increased even through the crisis. secondly, the importance of promoting independent living in old age has been highlighted in a joint report of the commission services and the social protection committee on adequate social protection for long-term care needs in an ageing society. this report included proposals for future activities in the areas of long-term care. they should address the lack of good empirical evidence – a precondition for closer cooperation and mutual learning among member states, as well as for any policy initiatives at the european level. thirdly, the commission has launched a joint project with the oecd on measuring the adequacy of social protection against long-term care needs. it should develop a methodology for cross-country comparisons of the extent of social protection against long-term care needs. fourthly, the commission started a new project with the european network of national human rights institutions to promote greater respect for the human rights of people in long-term care. specific measures to support active and healthy ageing are being developed with parts of the business community in the context of the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing. active ageing also became a higher priority in the new funding instruments, such as the european social fund. the european year was a milestone, but your report, mr kukan and dear members of parliament, is also a timely reminder that we must continue to build on these achievements of the european year, and that we must not relent in our efforts to promote active ageing.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i too would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr kukan, for the report before us today, which i consider to be a very important report because it speaks of the european union's population living longer and healthier, and this is a positive thing, but on the other hand, old age is often considered a threat to society, mainly because of the impact it has on social security, and this phenomenon therefore raises many questions: how can we, for example, help people to remain active and independent even as they age? growing old should not be viewed as a burden. we should look at active old age holistically. older citizens can be active participants in our society both as active contributors and as beneficiaries of society, in a suitable environment and with a healthy lifestyle, people of a certain age, can easily keep their jobs with a positive effect on public revenue. culture also plays a very important role in helping to form a positive public opinion about old age, and so policies concerning it should respect current cultures and reject practices that nowadays have no place in our thinking, a clear example, those who reach retirement age do not necessarily have to stop working.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their support and for their sometimes very detailed questions. i would like to add only that the commission fully recognises the entrepreneurial potential of the liberal professions. in this respect we will continue to pay attention to the liberal professions – as i said before – in the framework of the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. the liberal professions will, of course, be included in our internal market strategy, with a very strong focus on modernisation, the law and regulations. we will also try to prioritise infringement cases, as mentioned by mr schwab. so the internal market strategy will, and should, include a number of potential actions to address barriers – mentioned by many of you – such as disproportionate professional qualification requirements or the extensive scope of reserved activities for regulated professions. the next subject is that of mutual evaluation, which, it should be stressed, covers all sectors of activity – not just the regulated professions. the objective of mutual evaluation is to assess restrictions related to qualification requirements and to remove unjustified and disproportionate barriers. on the recognition of professional qualifications, the commission is now working very closely with member states’ representatives to reach an agreement on the proposal for an implementing act introducing the european professional card (epc) – for example, for nurses responsible for general care, pharmacists, physiotherapists and estate agents. the technical infrastructure – which was the subject of the question on epc – and the other mechanisms in the internal market information system will be completed before january 2016, i.e. in the next few months. this was ms le grip’s question. the action which will follow the mutual evaluation exercise will be announced as part of the internal market strategy. i do not want to go into detail on it here because i think we will have a lot of opportunities to discuss it at the orientation stage, after the orientation debate in the college and after adoption of the internal market strategy. i think i have responded briefly to all the questions. to sum up, i would add that there will certainly be a focus on the liberal professions in the internal market strategy. modernisation, innovation and diminishing the rules and barriers in these sectors are very important for us, and we will be cooperating with you on this.
mr president. - i have to go. we need to recognise the abilities and capacities of all, regardless of their gender by ensuring, inter alia, the following: to introduce children, girls and boys, to stem subjects from an early age in an interactive, engaging and non-stereotypical way. educators motivate learners to develop their abilities regardless of stereotypes, while enhancing career guidance measures also in this respect. to assist schools in acquiring the necessary resources to encourage students from an early age to engage in science projects in order to learn by doing. we also want to encourage women who have made successful careers in science to share their experience as role models and mentors where this has not yet been done, and where there have been efforts to do so we must strengthen those efforts.
in writing.– the reasons for the weaknesses being demonstrated by the european union must be correctly recognised. these weaknesses result from developments within the union, not from unforeseen events happening outside or inside europe. the union is suffering from overstretch and overreach. because of them, have emerged the dilemmas and paralysis that affect the union as it faces the big problems of today – among which the migration crisis, the stand-off in the ukraine, the tragic greek muddle and the persisting high unemployment. the union expanded its commitments and aspirations, but the political will was not really there and the means to carry them out not really available. meanwhile its soft power outside its borders continued to increase, maintaining the attractiveness of its model, fuelling expectations as to what the union could do for “people”. we are told that “more europe” is the solution to this state of affairs. many european citizens living their daily lives away from the pressures and shared assumptions of political forces involved in the european project, fail to understand what is going on. the solution to overstretch and overreach can – at least during a first phase – only be found in political and economic consolidation, not by enhancing overreach.
mr president, when i first entered politics one piece of advice was given to me: never speak when you are angry. i will ignore that today. member states seem to agree easily on how many fish we can pick from our seas. they agree on how many plastic bags we can throw away, but when bodies of children are washing up on our shores and we still cannot agree how to deal with refugees humanely, then everything else we do seems to me to be of little use. nothing is more urgent or more important. we like to say that we are a union of shared values, but we are not yet a union of shared responsibility and that is our collective failure. refugees are people running away from war, from death. prime ministers simply cannot afford to look away. every single state must fulfil its moral and legal obligation to address the situation. walls and fences do not work and neither does simply throwing money at the issue. we need more than band-aid solutions that serve to make us feel better before the next emergency exposes its inadequacy, and yes, we need a binding permanent distribution mechanism for people in need of protection and we needed this yesterday. so my call to prime ministers is this: face down the populists, have the courage to give people fleeing the unimaginable horror the chance of a future without fear. send an unequivocal message that europe also stands with the voiceless. let us be an example for the world. this is the challenge of our generation and we cannot be remembered as the ones who dithered while thousands suffered on our doorstep, or we will be the generation who failed.
in writing.– solidarity, a common value, comes without an opt-out clause. solidarity means addressing migration together, assisting each other to assist those escaping persecution and war. it is in times when we are facing our fears, when we are feeling overwhelmed that we must be more united in expressing our value of solidarity to protect the life of those escaping oppression and in fighting those who fearlessly make money off the misery of these people by exposing them to dangers and by bringing death to our lands and seas rather than life. the council should no longer hide behind political rhetoric. solidarity means ensuring that each member state adheres to european standards established under the european common asylum system. each member state must take upon itself the responsibility to participate in asylum seekers distribution. while addressing a crisis, we should also strengthen our solidarity with third countries by assisting them towards a path to democratisation, strengthening their economies and job opportunities, and seeking social justice. this will address the root causes of migration. humanitarian aid is not charity but a process of empowerment for tcns to find peace, employment and justice in their own land. our foreign policy needs to ensure that this aid is effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the change in the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine, because this is not just a change in name but has strong political significance. this change reflects the unga resolution 67/19 which upgraded the status of palestine at the united nations to that of non-member observer state and thus the denomination palestine shall be used on all occasions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the change in the name to the delegation for relations with palestine as it is important that the international community recognises the steps that the palestinians are making towards statehood as part of a two state solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine, which is in line with article 4 of the implementing provisions governing the work of all european parliament delegations.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau. with this partnership, different ways can be explored of helping to develop long-term fishing policies for this region. this will not only benefit guinea-bissau but also for europe in that region in the future.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the benefits so far reaped by the eu through the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea bissau. it also calls for the agreement to promote more genuinely sustainable development of the fisheries sector and for the commission to develop its own means of data collecting on all catches so as to be better empowered to assess the impact of the agreement on the marine ecosystem and on the fishing communities more accurately.
in writing. ‒ since 1980, the fleets of eec/eu member states have had access to fishing opportunities in guinea-bissau’s waters. however, owing to the coup d’état in the republic of guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012, the eu suspended the procedures required for a new protocol to be signed. in may 2014, elections were held in the country and a new protocol implementing the fisheries agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau was finally signed on 24 november 2014, covering a three-year period. given its importance for both guinea-bissau and for eu fleets operating in that country’s waters i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ given the support of the committee on fisheries in moving this agreement forward, i voted to give my consent to this agreement with guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau because it is essential for the country’s economy and in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry. it provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, also with a view to combating iuu fishing. it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of providing fishing opportunities in guinea-bissau for the european union. doing so will increase the relationships within that region. with this partnership, different ways can be explored of helping to develop long-term fishing policies for this region. this will not only benefit guinea-bissau but also for europe in that region in the future.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol with guinea bissau, as this provides for a continued cooperation agreement on sustainable fishing. however, the extension of the agreement must be characterised by better coordination on sectorial support and the collection of more reliable data on catches and on the conservation status of the fishery resources.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with a new fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. in the report adjacent to the recommendation for the parliament to approve the signing of a new protocol, the rapporteur states that a more detailed assessment and study should be made of this agreement and he asks for more reliable data on catches and on the conservation status of fishery resources in general. i agree with this approach, hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the agreement. the fishing partnership agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau will benefit the fishing industries of both the eu and guinea-bissau. the agreement also sets forth sound methods to manage the fisheries resources and ensures sustainability protocols are being adhered to by national and eu fishing vessels through improved monitoring capacities.
in writing. ‒ the protocol provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau within the limits of the available surplus. it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. the protocol is of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry. it provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, also with a view to combating iuu fishing. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this protocol in order to improve better management and conservation of fishery resources. furthermore, this protocol will promote the cooperation between eu and cape verde, aiming to create a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ this protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde is being established in order to comply with the new common fisheries policy regulation, which puts the emphasis on sustainable fisheries and good governance, while recognising the importance of policy consistency between the cfp and eu development cooperation objectives. the protocol covers a four-year period, thus providing a degree of stability. having regard to the outcome of the assessment of the previous protocol and to the content of the new protocol, i voted in favour of giving consent to it.
in writing. ‒ given the support of the committee on fisheries in moving this agreement forward, i voted to give my consent to this agreement with cape verde.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations on fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and financial contribution because the conclusion of this protocol will be beneficial for both the eu and cape verde. it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this protocol in order to improve the management and conservation of fishing resources. furthermore, this protocol will promote the cooperation between eu and cape verde, aiming to create a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a protocol to allow continued fishing activities by the european fleet and also to allow ship owners authorisation in the cape verde is beneficial since it will foster a new impetus for cooperation towards the development and exploration of sustainable fisheries in the area. the protocol also briefly mentions the need to improve protection measures for the shark population. i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that the fishing opportunities granted to eu vessels are in line with the best scientific opinions available and with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, and are in line with the 'available surplus principle'. it must be noted that the new protocol lays down a reference tonnage which is identical to that under the previous protocol; the catch level is therefore controlled. hence i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the agreement. the fishing partnership agreement between the eu and cape verde puts into place important policies regarding threats to shark species in the area by over-catching. by setting up a system of extensive electronic monitoring, this agreement ensures the continuation of a healthy population for sharks in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and financial contribution because the conclusion of this protocol will be beneficial for both the eu and cape verde. it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this protocol as it ensures to develop cooperation between the eu and the republic of madagascar which will help to promote sustainable fisheries policy. the protocol also outlines the observation program aiming to protect species. moreover, the agreement will be beneficial to the eu market as well as plans to provide quality fish products and develop a partnership framework between eu vessels and local fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it augments cooperation between the eu and the republic of madagascar. the recommendations put forward in this fisheries partnership agreement will assist both the eu and madagascar in meeting the objectives of the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in the interest of both parties. the agreement puts forward a proposal for monitoring processes and developing future guidelines for possible experimental and sustainable fishing.
in writing. ‒ the protocol and agreement is being established due to the new regulation governing the common fisheries policy, which places emphasis on sustainable fisheries and good governance. the partnership arrangements under the agreement are intended to promote the responsible exploitation of madagascar’s fishery resources, providing an opportunity to boost economic growth, improve the human rights situation and conditions for workers. the rapporteur regards the agreement as an opportunity for the eu to encourage madagascar to abide by human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance. hence i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in support of the agreement. the fishing partnership agreement between the eu and madagascar is an important part of the growing eu fishing sector based out of the south-western portion of the indian ocean. the agreement will further our goals of sustainability for these vital resources, while still allowing development of the fishing sector to continue.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the protocol will help maintain fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the fishing zone of madagascar and contribute to better management and conservation of fishery resources through financial support (sectoral support) for the implementation of programmes adopted at national level by the partner country, in particular as regards monitoring and combating illegal fishing. under the protocol, madagascar is expected to continue to cooperate effectively with the eu particularly as regards the sustainable management of fishery resources and the fight against iuu fishing. that is why i have voted in favour of the report on fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to amend the protocol of marrakesh agreement establishing the wto as required by the treaties. i believe amending the protocol of marrakesh agreement will significantly improve trade movement around the world especially for developing countries.
in writing. ‒ with this positive outcome the parliament gave its consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. this new agreement is expected to significantly reduce the time and cost of trading, and thus help businesses in developing and least-developed countries to access new export opportunities. in the light of the above considerations, i voted in favour of this positive recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the conclusion of the agreement and to bring the trade facilitation agreement before the parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. while the new agreement is expected to significantly reduce the time and cost of trading, and thus help businesses in developing and least-developed countries to access new export opportunities. it is important that the modernisation efforts should bear fruit in all countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe amending the protocol of marrakesh agreement will significantly improve trade movement around the world especially for developing countries. it is expected to increase trade and give small businesses access to new markets and as a result offer consumers a wide range of cheaper products. the report emphasises that the degree and the timing of implementation of the agreement will determine the benefits that will be derived therefrom and that full and faithful implementation that reflects the priorities and concerns of developing countries within the remit of the doha development agenda will be of greatest benefit to all signatories.
in writing. ‒ the report is supporting the parliament's recommendation for the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, and also highlights the importance of the agreement, that is expected to significantly reduce the time and cost of trading, and thus help businesses in developing and least-developed countries to access new export opportunities. in the light of this, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the agreement. this amendment to the marrakesh agreement will lead to decreased waiting time in the clearance of goods through customs in all participating countries by bringing about greater cooperation between the various customs authorities throughout the world. this will benefit companies both large and small that deal with import, or export, in their daily activities.
in writing. ‒ the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) was the principal outcome of the wto 9mc, held in december 2013 in bali. the tfa, part of the wider ‘bali package’, covers issues including advanced rulings, transparency, goods in transit, specific issues responding to the concerns of smes and simplifying customs formalities. it is the first multilateral agreement ever reached since the creation of the wto in 1995. the eu has been a long-standing champion of the tfa, given the benefits it will bring to both developing and developed countries. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to authorise belgium and poland to ratify, and austria to accede to, the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is meant to give the consent of parliament to the council decision authorising belgium and poland to ratify, and austria to accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways. as of today, eleven of the member states are already parties, while fifteen have indicated that they do not have inland waterways covered by the convention. austria and poland have expressed an interest in becoming parties to the convention. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008. it is therefore necessary to give retroactive authorisation in order to rectify the current irregular situation. for these reasons i voted in favour this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in support of authorisation. the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways establishes common standards for the carriage of goods through domestic waterways. austria, belgium, and poland have expressed interest in becoming parties to the agreement, which first requires authorisation by the eu. i supported these three member states to join with the eleven others that are already part of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report on authorisation for austria, belgium and poland to ratify, or to accede to, the convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways. i believe it will be an important contribution to the internal market in the field of transport by harmonising contracts and inland navigation standards across europe.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the proposal is to establish provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, in order to enable them to deal in an effective manner with the current significant inflow of third country nationals in their territories. this is putting their asylum systems under strain. these provisional measures aim to the relocate applicants for international protection that appear to be in clear need of international protection from italy and greece to the other member states. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that these provisional measures will help italy and greece to handle with immigration in their states and welcome the introduction of the concept of mandatory distribution mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is the first step towards a fair european policy which can address the current systems deficiencies. through its initiative to relocate migrants from italy and greece, during a time where both countries are being put under massive pressure, europe will be finally putting in place the principle of solidarity. the next step, as called upon within this report, is a permanent binding quota mechanism which takes into consideration the reception capacities of each individual member state. as i have stated in the past, this however must happen hand-in-hand with a total revamp of the dublin system.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in support of the resolution. this emergency legislation will relocate people from two of the countries whose facilities for incoming migrants are under considerable pressure. this is a small step towards greater solidarity among member states and a necessary point of departure towards a binding, permanent distribution mechanism between every member state.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on provisional measures in the international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. it is essential to show more solidarity between ourselves and create a truly european asylum system
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing multiple challenges such as the economy, climate, environment and society. most often these challenges manifest themselves around the cities or find their solutions in and through cities. i agree that that cities need to get involved in the preparation and implementation of eu policies and that these policies need to be better adapted to urban realities. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this own-initiative report is to examine the urban policy challenges for eu policymakers and to devise guidelines and boundaries for a future sustainable eu urban development policy. the report emphasises the fact that there is no single european model for a city, and focuses on the challenges of tomorrow’s cities and the growth from ‘cities’ to ‘megacities’, the issue of smart, green and inclusive growth, and management and governance solutions. i believe in the need for a more unified eu approach to this topic and so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in support of the report. 72% of the population of the eu and 94.8% of malta’s people live in urban areas. this report focuses on the challenges we face today and how the urban environment can either solve or exacerbate these issues. it suggests cities become more involved in the creation of eu policy and establishes that we must focus more closely on the effect of policy on urban environments.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which examines the challenges of the urban policy for eu policy makers and gives advice for a future sustainable eu urban development policy, which is essential to gear the eu urban agenda towards the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and in particular to the topics of social inclusion, demographic change and sustainability.
mr president. - i have to go. we have an agenda that talks about the precariat among many other things, and i think this issue has been on the agenda of this parliament for a long time now, and we have heard a lot of it last night. i have read about the effects of precariat, how many women in the european union are affected by this type of work. how many young people are being affected by this type of work. other minorities being affected by this type of work. and today we have heard the commission and the council in particular tell us that there is a state of affairs and i say to the council, yes we know it. we know that there are such good examples that you used, including, for example, workers who are still living in poverty despite having a job. and so i want to be, more certain, more reassured that what we are saying here today is not just a fact, but we must move now to our action. i agree with much of what laura said. we must be careful, we must be careful that when elections come in our country we are not promised a way and then when we are in government we act differently. we are facing a real situation here, a hot situation, and i am still not happy with the way the council and the commission are acting, i think too little has been done. we need better definitions of what is and is not precarious. we need to see where there is abuse, why, and where there is abuse, what we are going to do to stop it, because we don't just come here and say abuse exists, we know it. today the question before us is not whether we have abused or not. and there are certainly abuses. but what will we do together to end these abuses once and for all? we should not forget the principle of subsidiarity either, and here i would also like to see what the council and the commission have to say on this issue of subsidiarity, subsidiarity is an important value that cannot be overlooked. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. well, there was no demand, but i agree that the latest report we have on the social and employment situation showed that there is an increase in permanent and full-time employment, exceeding the increase in temporary and part-time employment for the third consecutive time over a three-month period. but the fact that poverty still exists, as i have already said, among the employed and that it can ultimately be a double-edged sword, since 50% of jobseekers are still unfortunately living in poverty, that is not a kind of work, is right.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you for this discussion and for the views expressed here tonight. i can assure you that the commission will continue to work hard in support of member states to address future challenges as regards the sustainability of health systems. europe’s ambition is to have a social ‘triple a’. one way to achieve this could be through ensuring effective social protection systems with universal access to good-quality healthcare. the commission will naturally continue to actively support member states in their endeavours to attain this goal. long—term challenges exist in this area, which is one of the areas constituting a significant part of public expenditure. at the same time, we need to ensure broad access to affordable and high-quality health services. so the commission will continue to monitor member states’ reforms in healthcare and pension systems. let me close by thanking parliament once again for its interest and its activities in support of our common objectives in these important areas.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr chrysogonos, and all the members involved, for the important work on the draft resolution on the monitoring of the application of eu law. the commission highly appreciates parliament’s increased interest in implementation issues. i believe our debate today could not have come at a more crucial point for the eu. the european union is a union based on law. we have built this body of law together. it is the basis for our actions. it is not enough to merely pass legislation: what matters is its application on the ground. if it is not applied, the eu foundation weakens. the importance of the correct application of eu law cannot have been made clearer than by the current migration crisis. with the current unprecedented flows of people coming to europe in search of refuge, the correct application of our legislation on asylum is vitally important. eu law provides that all those entitled to asylum and protection are received in humane conditions and have their case dealt with efficiently and quickly. we certainly do not apply eu law in all member states at this stage. eu law also requires that all those who have no right to stay must be returned to their countries of origin rapidly and efficiently. this is why, in addition to the measures that we have adopted this week, we will make the correct application of eu asylum law the priority of our actions. we have already started with infringement procedures. the treaties entrust the commission, together with the court of justice, with ensuring the correct application of eu law. we take this role as guardian of the treaties very seriously indeed. if member states are not respecting the rule of law or are breaching eu law, we will not hesitate to launch formal infringement proceedings and take the case to the european court of justice where necessary. the treaties also give us the possibility to impose financial penalties where judgements of the court are not respected and where directives are not transposed on time, and we use those possibilities systematically. this unique and essential role of the commission is an integral and indispensable part of our legal system. in the report members have expressed concern about the handling of complaints before they reach the stage of infringement proceedings and have called for this to be regulated in a european administrative law under article 298 of the treaty. i would like to stress that the commission views complaints as an invaluable source for carrying out its task as guardian of the treaties. this is why the commission has created a strong framework to protect complainants. the code of good administrative behaviour and the communication on relations with the complainant offer a number of guarantees that safeguard complainants’ rights throughout the entire procedure. these include the right to be informed about any decision on his or her complaint, the right to be heard, prior notice before closing a case and a timeframe for a final decision on complaints. against this background, i am not convinced that there is a necessity to regulate this matter in a legislative act based on article 298 of the treaty. the commission will continue to fully respect its commitments in the framework agreement to provide information concerning infringement procedures to the european parliament. moreover, it will also continue its current practice to inform the public at the latest when a letter of formal notice is issued. some of you have expressed concerns about the commission’s better regulation agenda, in particular the refit programme, including an alleged deregulatory effect. in this respect, i want to make clear, first of all, that refit is not about deregulation. rather, it aims at making sure that legislation remains effective and fit for purpose. it has a focus on transparency and openness, collecting views and suggestions from a wide variety of stakeholders, thereby reinforcing the protection of public interest. the refit platform offers a forum for dialogue between the commission, businesses, smes, social partners, civil society organisations and member states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions.– madam president, deficiencies in, and differences between, standards are a result of the fact that member states transpose eu legislation in different ways. they hinder the delivery of tangible benefits for our citizens and pose problems for those wishing to live, work or do business across borders. it is time to put people at the heart of eu policy-making by identifying problematic areas, dismantling barriers to citizens and improving implementation in ways which result in concrete benefits in the daily lives of our citizens. the commission should push for a better mechanism for reviewing how eu rules are applied in practice and how citizens and businesses are empowered to exercise their rights. so i was very pleased to hear the commissioner express the same opinions in his speech. inconsistent transportation hinders not only citizens but also member states. countries such as malta which have a low rate of transposition infringement cases are competitively disadvantaged by other member states which often maintain lower regulatory standards rather than transposing eu legislation. this is not acceptable.
madam president, it is true that we monitor the application of european law into the national legal order to ensure respect for the rule of law, legal certainty and predictability of law. however, effective, efficient and timely implementation by member states is not only there to serve legal concepts but more so to ensure those freedoms the enjoyment of which is fundamental to european citizenship. as citizens of the union, we expect to be able to move freely amongst member states and to live, work and do business in other member states. in doing so, citizens rightly expect not to get entangled in legislative webs created by either late implementation, or inaccurate or incomplete application of european law. while recognising the commission’s efforts in monitoring the application of eu law, citizens need to see stronger and less time-consuming procedures. in today’s challenges there is, for example, no time to waste in assuring that member states correctly and timely apply european law on migration as well as that on human trafficking and the environment. we can only deliver results to our citizens if legislation that has been lawfully passed is applied.
madam president, i recognise and thank the commissioner for the efforts and actions being taken in the fight against human trafficking. the anti-trafficking directive requires better and more efficient application by member states. we also urgently need to ensure that victims are protected sufficiently to be enabled in exposing the criminals. our fight is not with the victims but with the traffickers and those who assist them. our fight also needs to address traffickers online as they continue to expand their activities through the use of the internet. we also need to address the capacity of those working in areas of administrative government with whom victims of trafficking come into contact so that they too can identify cases of trafficking, and we cannot leave out the need to address businesses which benefit from the victims.
trafficking in human beings is a serious and alarming problem. thousands of people are sold to or from europe every year and forced to work illegally. used for illegal organ trafficking and legal adoptions. trafficking of women and children for the purposes of sexual exploitation is not only on the rise but has become the largest target for trafficking in human beings. women and children are living in slavery in the hands of traffickers as we speak and losing their lives in the most undignified and cruel ways. trafficking in women is unacceptable. human trafficking is a modern form of slavery. it is a crime against humanity and a violation of fundamental human rights. for these reasons and a thousand others, i would appeal to the commission and the member states to stand firm on this crime. they must take into account that there is a gender problem in all this and the biggest victims are women and children. this must never be acceptable.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the unquestionable success of the cohesion funds, namely the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf) on jobs and growth in the eu. it lists some very encouraging figures in this domain and the effect is ongoing as member states are able to tap into these funds until the end of the year. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which illustrates that, during the recent crisis and austerity measures, cohesion investments gave stability to the regions by ensuring the flow of funding when national public and private investments declined or ceased altogether. the report focuses on implementation payment problems, governance and territorial dimensions. it is important also to see a focus on cohesion policy in the long—term perspective, calling on institutions to already think about the shape of the cohesion policy post-2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report. this year’s report highlights great progress made by the eu’s cohesion policy in the categories of regional development, entrepreneurial incentives and investment, and reduction of red tape in the execution of policy to this end. i look forward to future progress on bringing about greater cohesion in economic and social matters across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on investment for jobs and growth, which is very important in promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this motion is conditioned by the following considerations. in all the interventions that are carried out at regional level, no matter what their scope, source of funding or sectoral placing, it is crucial to ensure that they fit into a strategy that attempts to counter the regional (and national) divergences that for systemic reasons are growing within the eurozone. the mechanisms that define the eurozone, including the absence of centrally funded treasury mechanisms and of mutualised instruments for tapping financial markets, plus the wide range of endowments characterising the separate territories of the zone, are leading to transfers of resources from ‘south’ to ‘north’. it is crucial to ensure that cohesion funding is also analysed in terms of this phenomenon. it should be ensured that they contribute on a micro basis as well as within a macro-regional framework, to counter, or compensate for, this transfer of resources. it should also be ensured that cohesion funding and similar proposals do not unintendedly serve to further stimulate divergences by increasing a dependency of south to north over the medium to long term, leading to an increase in counter-productive resource transfer, rather than its reduction.
in writing. ‒ the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations (ey 2012) has increased awareness of the contribution that older people make to society. amongst others, ey 2012 has also given political momentum to policy initiatives and discussions in order to face and adapt to the challenges and opportunities that longer life expectancy presents. it is now my hope that this momentum is kept up by member states and work on strategies to promote and sustain active ageing in their countries. i concur with the points raised in the report and voted in favour. i believe that older citizens can be active participants in an age-integrated society, both as active contributors as well as beneficiaries of society.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to assess the efforts made by the eu in the year 2012 designated as the ‘european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations’. i agree with the rapporteur that the initiatives launched in that framework should be followed up and continued. he considers it necessary to develop the ‘silver economy’, based on economic opportunities arising from public and consumer expenditure related to population ageing and the specific products, services, innovative solutions and needs of the population over 50 resulting in new jobs and growth. there are indications that the effects of the european year 2012 are lasting beyond the year itself – for example, austria, estonia, slovenia, slovakia and the czech republic all adopted long term policies on the subject during 2012. i agree with the views expressed in this review and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the resolution. 2012 was officially designated as the ‘european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations’ which worked to encourage active ageing and combat age based discrimination throughout the eu. this assessment looks at the effects of national efforts in 2012 and how we can continue the successes into the future.
in writing. ‒ i believe that active ageing policies should not be considered only as an instrument to maintain the employability of older workers, but as an opportunity for older citizens to enhance the positive role they play in the society. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport sets out a strategy for an improved transport system, whose aim is to also increase growth and employment. i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to give priority to the most efficient and sustainable modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, however, this vote is subject to a number of reservations. i support the fact that measures aimed at reducing ghg from shipping should be established under the auspices of the imo, however i believe that at this stage efforts should be made to focus on the establishment of a global mrv instrument. with respect to the modern infrastructure and smart funding which priorities distance-based charging, this is evidently discriminatory for malta. i further believe that the report should have made a reference to sustainable road transport modes where rail is unavailable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the resolution. the 2011 white paper on transport established long-term goals to improve transportation systems across the eu. it covers areas of transportation policy from sustainability of the energy used to the actual reliability of the individual lines. this comprehensive approach to transportation policy will serve as a holistic guide to the next several decades.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, which calls to define a long-term strategy that would help the eu transport system achieve the overall goal of the common transport policy, i.e. to provide current and future generations with access to safe, secure, reliable and affordable mobility resources to meet their needs, while minimising undesirable impacts such as congestion, accidents, air and noise pollution, and climate change effects. even if this is a very positive report and i voted in favour, i could not support certain paragraphs which in my opinion impinge negatively on the policy areas that fall strictly under a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ women have faced discrimination in academic and scientific careers for a number of years now. i believe that there is a need to remove these barriers in order to promote equality between men and women in universities and in the world of science. in the report it is being suggested that measures should be taken by both the commission and the member states in the framework of the european research area and the specific program horizon 2020. i agree with what is written in the report, thus i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it addresses gender equality in academic positions and urges the commission and member states to revise the existing legal provisions to ensure non-discrimination in all types of university or research contracts or funding. it also calls for positive actions and institutional changes to encourage women to continue their scientific/research careers and asks member states to introduce gender-equality plans at all levels. these are positions which i agree with.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report. the glass ceiling and its effect on women’s ability to achieve parity with men in the scientific sector, both in terms of employment and income, is clear. the report explores this phenomenon and suggests ways eu states can combat this barrier.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on women’s careers in science and university because i believe that horizon 2020 cannot be achieved without gender equality. this report addresses gender equality in academic positions and urges the commission and member states to revise the existing legal provisions to ensure non-discrimination in all types of university or research contracts or funding. it calls for positive actions and institutional changes to encourage women to continue their scientific/research careers.
in writing. ‒ i agree with a number of elements in this report as it highlights the significant progress that has been achieved in terms of equal attainments and access to education. it urges gender equality to be applied in the educational system at all levels in order to remove gender stereotype, empower girls and eliminate inequalities between men and women. on the other hand, i abstained as i believe that a number of other elements introduced in the report infringe on the principle of subsidiarity
in writing. ‒ the report contains proposals on empowering girls through education which i voted in favour of since they seek to address the obstacles girls encounter in accessing education and in progressing towards career paths of their own choice. the proposals focus on addressing gender stereotypes and engaging education and educators in bringing about a culture change, while actually seeking to address the employment-education disparity that exists. this disparity is indicative of obstacles that women encounter in their education and career paths. paragraph 29 calls on member states to consider making age-appropriate comprehensive sex and relationship education compulsory in their school curricula for primary school children. it is this element of the report which i do not support. it is important to teach children about respect for themselves, their bodies and for each other, but with young children more can be gained from being surrounded by role models who themselves value and practise respect, rights and responsibilities. this is where we are failing children since we tell them one thing and what they see is the total opposite. we need role models (teachers, practitioners, parents) and not just to address the children. consequently, i abstained on the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it looks towards ensuring all children, irrespective of their gender, receive the same treatment and opportunities. i believe that we should empower our children to believe that both sexes are perfectly capable of doing any job. the report makes proposals to address the gender gap found in many professions including ict, engineering, banking and finance, among others. this report focuses on tackling homophobia and gender-based violence in schools. our children deserve to live without fear, but they cannot do that if we do not take action.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that every girl and woman has right to education and therefore i have voted in favour of the report in order to empower girls through education in the eu
in writing. ‒ any transposition deficit of the internal market regulatory framework by the efta members is a missed business opportunity for both sides. i agree with the calls to step up efforts to transpose, fully implement and enforce internal market legislation. i further support the committee's calls to facilitate the provision of services and dismantle any unnecessary barriers such as the cross-border mobility restriction implemented by the helvetic confederation. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution put for the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report. the question of this report is how effectively the eea agreement has been in establishing markets between the eu and iceland, norway, and lichtenstein. the report shows that while the overall integration through the eea agreement has been positive and expansive.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on eea-switzerland: with regards to the full implementation of the internal market, which calls to step up efforts to transpose, fully implement and enforce internal market legislation.
mr president, hundreds have died in lampedusa and we have had enough of the words and we must act. hundreds have died in the mediterranean and given enough words, we need action. aylan's death and hundreds of children like him who didn't show their pictures and gave us enough passwords, we want action. and i was delighted to hear juncker say the same thing in his speech. and while we're here, we continue to produce more rhetoric, there are children, women and men who are now, while we're here, struggling to the death to escape war and persecution. and is this the europe we want? the european union which we find in fact not only a toothless tiger but a union where certain of our members are missing the main value: the solidarity. i therefore hope that we can find a common asylum and immigration policy so that this europe can give help and dignity to people like us who deserve it. without forgetting, however, the situation, facilities and size of the member states receiving immigrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that president jean-claude juncker’s proposals today, and particularly the admission that the way must involve mandatory burden—sharing, is a crucial step in the right direction. it is the result of the culmination of many years of pn meps’ hard work. i also agree that the dublin regulation is completely ineffective and must be revised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as it is a reaction to the precarious events that occurred over the summer which need the eu’s pertinent and effective action. the resolution includes important elements needed within a solid migration policy, such as the need to implement a permanent relocation mechanism and the total re-evaluation of the dublin regulation. that being said, i voted against the amendment of the visa code due to the strategic location of malta and the security implications such a proposal would have on the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution as it endorses the announcement by the commission of a permanent relocation mechanism which will be activated in emergency situations. the resolution also underlines the parliament’s strong support for a binding permanent relocation mechanism for persons in need of protection.
in writing. ‒ for clear humanitarian reasons, i fully back this resolution. however, we also need a global long-term plan regarding how europe should deal with the flow of asylum seekers. the plan would set a framework for what needs to be done in the coming years. such a plan would:- estimate the numbers of genuine asylum seekers that would be arriving in europe from syria and other troubled areas in the next three years; - suggest common accelerated procedures to distinguish them from economic migrants; - propose clearer methods to ensure their proper reception on arrival; - suggest eu-level schemes arranging accommodation and daily maintenance; - propose programmes for their insertion in local communities; - propose plans for their integration in labour markets without putting european workers and unemployed at a disadvantage; - estimate the positive contributions which migrants could eventually make to europe’s economy; - estimate the costs of the plan over a five-year horizon and suggest ways and means for its financing. concentrating on the systematic repartitioning of arriving migrants through obligatory quotas among member states is a short-term response to a crisis that will persist. it could ultimately backfire.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to underscore the pressing need to renew the peace process. parliament called for the resumption of credible peace efforts without delay whilst underlining the fact that any lasting solution to the conflict can only be achieved in a regional context with the involvement of all relevant regional stakeholders and the support of the international community. parliament reiterated its strong support for the two-state solution.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s joint resolution expresses deep concern at the persisting stalemate in the middle east peace process, and calls for the resumption of credible peace efforts without delay. it also calls on both israelis and palestinians to avoid steps which could spark further escalation, including incitement, as well as unilateral measures which could prejudice the outcome of negotiations and threaten the viability of the two-state solution. furthermore, the resolution calls on commission vice-president federica mogherini to increase the eu’s efforts in pushing for and facilitating a resumption of talks. i believe that the resumption of peace talks in the middle east is long overdue and that the eu should leave no stone unturned in facilitating a two-state solution as soon as possible, therefore i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the vice president/high representative and the eu special representative to make full use of the political relations and institutional expertise of the eu and its member states, in order to play a broader political role in the peace process in the middle east. the resolution also stresses the importance of a two state solution.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the eu’s role in the middle east peace process, which calls on the resumption of credible peace efforts between israelis and palestinians without delay.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the human rights violations in belarus, i voted in favour of this resolution in order to urge belarus to comply with the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ this motion states that while the european parliament welcomes the recent release of political prisoners in belarus, it remains deeply concerned by the human rights and fundamental freedoms situation in the country. it calls on the belarusian government to rehabilitate the released political prisoners and to fully restore their civil and political rights, while stressing that this could be a potential first step towards improving relations between the european union and belarus. besides condemning the serious human rights abuses by belarus, this resolution also presents the eu as a potential interlocutor if belarus steps up and implements the needed reforms, hence i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution as it encourages the belarusian authorities to respect the international and regional human rights instruments ratified by belarus. through the resolution meps also express their support for the commission’s policy of ‘critical engagement’ with the belarusian authorities but also stresses the importance of vigilant monitoring of the resources allocated to belarus in order to ensure that they do not contribute to worsening the situation of the opposition and civil society in the country.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on belarus, which expresses its concern about the human rights and fundamental freedoms situation in the country, as well as by the shortcomings observed during previous elections by independent international observers and the active persecution of the opposition leaders after the elections and calls on belarus to conduct the upcoming presidential elections in accordance with internationally recognised standards, to give the opposition unfettered access to all government-controlled means of communication and to allow it to participate in the elections on an equal footing, in particular by creating independent election commissions and allowing an adequate representation therein on all levels and a transparent vote count.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to pay attention to social economy enterprises and also to include them in member states’ action plans for employment. i believe that social economy enterprises promote growth and jobs thus i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary report deals with social enterprises whose main aim is to achieve social objectives, such as providing jobs for vulnerable people or services with a high social impact, rather than creating profit for shareholders. although social economy enterprises play an important role when it comes to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, their level of recognition is rather low. this own-initiative report calls for a better acknowledgement of social economy enterprises and for public procurement procedures to be simplified, so that smaller social economy enterprises could better participate in tenders. as i fully agree with facilitating the running of such important players in our societies, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the importance of the union to stand by the commitments it made in the 2020 strategy. the rapporteur highlights the fact that the eu should make use of social entrepreneurship and social innovation to tackle both the immediate challenges of youth unemployment and migration and the long term challenges of our ageing population and the depopulation of rural areas. therefore i gave it my support.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in combatting unemployment because i strongly believe that social economy enterprises play an important role when it comes to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. their role should therefore be adequately recognised and their activities politically and financially supported. the commission should propose a legal framework for social economy enterprises by means of a european statute for cooperative societies, associations, foundations and mutual societies.
in writing. ‒ the economic slowdown brought with it a high level of unemployment, notably youth unemployment and public debt. the report sets forth the idea that additional reforms will benefit and expand the labour market together with better matching skills. hence, it will significantly achieve a competitive labour market and also provide benefits to a new generation of europeans.
in writing. ‒ this annual report, which deals with the application of eu law in 2012-2013, is quite technical in nature. however, it also includes some concrete comments on a number of key issues being experienced at institutional level. it express concerns about the effects of austerity measures on the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility to implement eu law correctly. as i am of the opinion that austerity measures were not, and cannot be, the sole solution to any financial crisis, and as this report proves that there are effects which are more far reaching, having an impact on the implementation of eu laws, i supported parliament’s position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is multifaceted in its approach and suggestions to combat the persistently high level of unemployment in the union. the report focuses on the need to foster the necessary skills and knowhow to create innovative products or services. it also highlights several sectors with significant job creation potential that the union needs to push ahead, particularly the digital single market and energy union. the issue of youth unemployment is another main focus of this report that underlines specific measures needed to encourage the hiring of young workers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this report because i am not in agreement with the text of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ it is true that we monitor the application of european law into national legal orders to ensure respect for the rule of law, certainty and predictability of law. but effective, efficient and timely implementation by member states is not only there to serve legal concepts but more so to ensure those freedoms the enjoyment of which is fundamental to european citizenship. as citizens of the union we expect to be able to move freely amongst member states, to live, work and do business in other member states. in doing so citizens rightly expect not to get entangled in legislative webs created by late implementation, inaccurate or incomplete application of european law. while recognising the commission’s efforts in monitoring the application of eu law, citizens need to see stronger and less time consuming procedures. in today’s challenges, there is no time to waste in ensuring that member states correctly and timely apply eu law on migration, human trafficking and the environment. we can only deliver results to our citizens if legislation lawfully passed is applied. in this regard, we need to ensure stricter, more efficient and quicker procedures that address discrepancies in the application of law more adequately
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as the monitoring of the smooth functioning of a true european area of justice that respects the different legal systems and traditions that exist inside the union is an important step towards greater cohesion in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on monitoring and implementation of eu law, which expresses its concern about the effects of austerity measures on the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility to implement eu law correctly and it points out that some policies are imposed on member states. it is time to put people at the heart of european union policy making by identifying problematic areas, dismantling citizens’ barriers and improving implementation in ways which reaps concrete benefits in the daily lives of citizens.
it is no secret that i too was disappointed with the justice and home affairs council. the whole world was looking to the european union and we failed. we couldn't even meet our own standards. instead we have heard the same arguments and the same excuses repeated by some states claiming to be able to exonerate themselves from liability. let's not forget the critical point in all of this; thousands of people, families, children are fleeing unspeakable horrors to seek shelter. the europe i knew would not close its doors. this is no time to build walls. this is the time to demonstrate in concrete terms the values on which europe is built. instead of letting the crisis expose the fragility of our union, and even threaten the credibility of the schengen area, we should show the world what we are capable of doing. europe should serve as an example to the rest of the world because, yes, we are in this together. the ministers who will meet again next week bear a historic responsibility. they can do better and they should do better. our union depends on it.
last monday, everyone had their eyes on the ministers of justice and home affairs in the hope of seeing the leaders of the european union take a concrete decision on this human tragedy, but once again, our citizens were very disappointed by the failure of the ministers to take tough decisions to find a common solution to the refugee crisis. how long have we been saying it? so much for words and now we need action: courageous action based on solidarity by all member states. not an action where we throw tear gas at refugees, you know? how many times do we say that, without further delay, we need to address the situation? instead, member states, suddenly reintroducing border controls, threaten the schengen area and cast doubt on one of the key principles of the european union: free movement. the european parliament has decided. it is now up to member states to respond to the global refugee crisis with strong political leadership, concrete actions and specific measures. remember that this is the symptom, not the cause.
in writing.– the stakes of this upcoming deal in paris are environmental but not exclusively. we have to negotiate for very strong mitigation commitments; commitments that drive collective actions and send a clear signal to all stakeholders to move towards low-carbon economies and societies in the coming decades. however, at the same time, we must also talk about adaptation. climate change can significantly enhance the competition for resources, such as food, water and grazing lands, and can become the biggest driver of population displacements. therefore, adaptation to the adverse impacts of climate change is necessary for all countries to minimise negative effects and to make full use of the opportunities for climate resilient growth and sustainable development. combating climate change contributes to combating poverty, inequalities and food security, and to fighting for development and peace. therefore, the eu has an essential role to play in the paris negotiations. we have the responsibility to ensure that the voices of the poorest, most vulnerable countries are heard. and we need to stand for more financial and technological support for them.
in writing.– as the situation in the mediterranean has deteriorated dramatically, i think that the un and the new sustainable development goals should adopt a strong stand to reflect the enormity of the migration crisis. this crisis is no longer a single-country problem, indeed it is no longer a uniquely european problem, it is an international problem affecting everyone both inside and outside the union. migration is a symptom not the cause and in the long run europe and the un need to address the cause at its origin. europe and the un need to combine efforts to ascertain that all those people have a future in their own country, by ensuring that the millions of euros pumped into economies – like those in african countries – are used for the benefit of their citizens to build sustainable economies, health services, and educational facilities and create jobs. we need a global response to address the situation and focus on solving the root cause of migration, tackling the violence in libya, syria, the middle east and sub-saharan africa and solving the causes that are forcing people to flee their homes, otherwise we would set ourselves up for even greater problems in the future.
mr president, what we are discussing today is decisively the first step towards achieving the energy union strategy and also a very important pillar of the eu’s pledge for cop 21 in paris. in my opinion, we have a set of policy tools that can help enshrine into law the eu’s target of a reduction of at least 40% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, whilst putting households and business consumers at the heart of the european energy transition. having said that, the ets as a main pillar of eu climate policy needs to be a very reliable instrument which can help us reduce emissions and fight climate change. for this to happen, however, we need a reformed ets which sets a price on carbon that encourages polluters to clean up their act. under the current phase 3 trading period, free allowances are allocated too generously and in an inflexible manner. handing out free emission allowances that exempt industries from reducing emissions is definitely not a solution. free allocations alone cannot solve the challenges the ets poses for industry, and this is an issue that we need to pay attention to in the upcoming discussions. for climate change mitigation up to 2030, ets is definitely important, but energy efficiency for household appliances is extremely important too. we need all the tools available to make sure that the eu will reach its 2030 energy and climate targets without ignoring industrial sector concerns, while sending a strong message to our global partners ahead of the paris climate conference showing that the eu is an unquestionable leader in ambition and responsibility.
in writing.– not enough is being done to compensate for the deleterious effects of the crisis in a number of agricultural sectors. this time the problem has been triggered by the prohibitions set by russia on eu agricultural imports as retaliation for the sanctions imposed by the eu on russia. it is now clear that eu sanctions were imposed without enough thought being given to the retaliatory consequences that would follow. there has been over-reliance by eu decision makers on growth in export markets outside russia and inside the eu to compensate for losses in russian markets; on remedial half measures adopted to overcome the arising problems; and on the belief that any losses sustained would be reversible. these assumptions especially the last one, have been too optimistic. the crisis is not affecting only producers who supplied vegetable, pigmeat and dairy products to russia. it is also affecting adversely other producers who are finding that sales on their home markets are being undercut by produce diverted from russian destinations. among those worst hit are farmers and producers in island and peripheral situations. the compensatory measures addressing this crisis need to be strengthened and broadly disseminated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out a number of important measures that tackle important elements for the eu and its citizens. it especially aims to reduce the problem of unemployment across the eu, especially among the long-term unemployed and youth. the role of the private sector and smes is highlighted in this process and appreciated by way of more transparent and more easily obtainable financing. the programme does not omit the issue of labour mobility within the eu and points out the actions needed to prevent any abuses of the common market. notwithstanding, references to the common consolidated tax base in paragraph 48 go against the notion of subsidiarity and hence i voted against the amendments to this paragraph.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the european parliament’s main priorities which it believes the european commission should strive towards in the upcoming year. i believe that we need to give proper recognition to, and develop, an eu social dimension. we need higher social standards throughout the eu, we need to strive for better standards of living, for concrete, effective and fair trade policies and better and more transparent regulation. we need economic growth and job creation whilst making sure that we move towards an energy transition and do a proper shift towards cleaner, more sustainable energy, tackling climate change and recover from the eurozone crisis. my vote in favour was with a reservation on the reference to specific tax policy regimes as i believe that these issues should respect the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the commission work programme 2016 will play a crucial role in tackling the problems of unemployment and increasing the union’s competitiveness in the global market. it also stresses the need to develop the digital single market as well as improve the eu’s energy resilience by striving towards a greener economy. therefore i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission work programme 2016, which is the european parliament response to the recent state of the union speech by commission president juncker and a list of actions which should be closely followed by the commission in its work programme for 2016. the resolution emphasises the urgent need for a strong social agenda, with decent social standards, greater investment in people and serious action to reduce inequalities. in addition, parliament once again urges the commission in its resolution to adopt the commission’s proposals for a better european asylum and migration policy.
in writing. ‒ the commission work programme 2016 rightly defines as an important objective the elimination of rampant tax evasion and avoidance, as well as aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations. measures that, in a transparent and consistent manner, seek to attain this goal in the context of a level playing field are desirable. a very serious problem arises, however, when the measures contemplated go beyond the stated objective and prepare the ground for tax harmonisation. this goes against the interest of peripheral regions and islands having limited endowments. when adopting european regulations they have, among others, removed protective trade barriers, adopted consumption taxes that follow continental models, phased out state aid, adopted stringent budgetary rules and abandoned exchange rate autonomy. this has severely curtailed their competitiveness. the only element that remains for them to safeguard this is fair tax competition. the resolution on the commission work programme for 2016 endorses a mandatory common consolidated tax base. in the current circumstances, these proposals amount to a first substantial step towards harmonisation. they are hugely detrimental to the development prospects of islands and regions at the periphery of the union. i cannot therefore approve of them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision as cooperation and solidarity between the member states is the basis of the european union and represents everything we stand for. responsibility needs to be shared among the member states in times like this and we should not leave the burden to fall on italy, greece and hungary but help them deal with the common crisis. these measures are the first steps towards a binding, permanent distribution mechanism between every member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is crucial that the union takes a closer step towards greater solidarity among member states. these measures are a necessary point of departure towards a binding, permanent distribution mechanism between every member state.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission’s proposal for emergency action to relocate 120 000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary. it is time for the eu to finally show true ‪solidarity, collective ‪responsibility‬ and ‪unity‬ and to address the urgency of this situation without any further delay. with my vote, once again, i strongly call on member states and governments to finally show true collective ownership and strong political leadership, and with concrete actions and specific measures to respond to the global refugee crisis.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that europe cannot take in all the misery in the world, but it is also true that europe, all of europe, must take care of the world's misery. we cannot be neutral, immobile, unreflective when injustice is rampant and when serious events are happening elsewhere on our planet. it is true that we must fight the origins, the sources of the migration problem, and some are doing so. i would like to pay tribute to the member states of the european union who have not reduced their development aid. there are not many of them. i would like to pay tribute to those who intend to raise their development aid. i would like to criticise the member states of the european union for having reduced their contribution to humanitarian aid. i would like to criticise those who have reduced their contribution to the food fund managed by the united nations. i would like to criticise the member states who have reduced their contribution to the running of the high commissioner for refugees. if we talk about origins, we must also talk about those who have helped to increase the mass of problems which, in fact, are driving the unfortunates of this world to come to europe. in fact, and i repeat it here, we should be proud that the unfortunate are heading for europe because europe is, in their eyes, a better place to live than anywhere else. why don't they go to russia? why don't they go to china? why don't they go to the united states? why don't they go to the gulf countries? should we now apologize for being the best place on the planet to live? we should be proud of that! but it is true that we have to deal with the massive influx of refugees and we are doing that. the right answer to the migration problem is not to build walls. the refugees, because they are unhappy, will always find a way to get into europe. i always do. so building walls will not solve the problem. but those who build these walls should at least pay attention to the language that accompanies their architectural work. it must be remembered that words speak to those who hear them. why do we say, without protest, that refugees are economic refugees? how do you know that? there are those who flee their country because they are persecuted. so let's not mix the categories. yes, there are economic refugees. would you not be if you were living in their circumstances? yes, it's true that they have no right to stay in europe. but let us not speak of these wretched people as if they were barbaric hordes, gangsters and organized gangs. it's not. they're all unhappy people. (applause) i would like to thank i said building walls wasn't the answer. i would add: why do some people think they can build walls between the countries of the european union? why is the building of walls between eu member states no longer a problem? it is still unlikely that in 2015 some governments are building walls inside the european union. what does that mean? this is the end of europe! if everyone did that, it would be the end of europe. we should not be afraid to criticize openly governments that resort to such architectural genius. some of you criticize the european union for not being able to take decisions. i would remind you, mr president, that the european council met on 23 september and that parliament will vote on the budget accompanying the decisions of the european council on 15 october. never - and i know what i'm talking about - has a decision been made so quickly. the council, the commission and parliament can be proud of that. if we were always this fast, europe would be in a much better state. you criticize the member states, yes, but you always say the european union. it's not right. do not say europe, europe, europe... do not say the european union, do not say tusk or juncker, say the member states. some member states are not in a position to take the decisions they should. so do not criticize europe, but criticize the member states which prevent us from acting. (applause) and please do not criticize my friend tusk. i am, however, a witness to the proceedings of the european council. if some member states prevent the president of the european council from moving forward as quickly as he would like, we should not criticize the president of the council, who is doing everything to get things moving. instead, criticise the member states which prevent it. and we should always come back to an important subject. i am very much concerned that the religious or philosophical factor is regaining an importance in europe that it does not deserve. it is not to be said that only christians are admitted to one's territory. it is not that we do not like to see believers of another faith in our territory. this is not europe! europe is the continent of tolerance. there should be no tolerance for intolerance. we must fight intolerance; you have to say it every time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. we have had a very good time, with the turkeys, in reaching an agreement on refugees. this is extremely important, not only for greece, but for the whole of europe. but we have also, of course, raised other questions. do you really think we would have held hands with herr erdoğan? naturally, we have also discussed the problems which are different from each other. but i am still of the opinion that turkey belongs to the list of safe countries. those who think it should not be so should draw their conclusions from their statements. if turkey is not on the list of safe countries, as some think, then the application must be made yesterday, the accession negotiations with turkey must be broken off. the european union is also committed to a harmonious common approach to accession negotiations, and turkey is also included on the list of safe countries. but don't think that we only exchanged friendships with herr erdoğan. however, i am grateful to turkey for hosting 2.2 million refugees on its territory. (beifall) where are we now, that we think, that would not be a great effort? we have agreed on this, 160 000 menschen in europa in solidarity with the member states to the south. turkey has taken in 2.2 million refugees, not to mention lebanon and jordan, where the percentages are still much higher. also: ein bisschen bescheidenheit täte uns manchmal gut. (it's a bit of modesty that makes you feel good) we are at the beginning of a long process, and therefore we need a permanent system of redistribution in europe, and therefore we also need a legalization of immigration to europe. i come from a small country called luxembourg, for those who don't know. i grew up with young italians, with many portuguese. luxembourg is one of the richest countries in the european union. without the portuguese and the italians this little country would not have become what it is. the wanderer brings wealth!
president of the european council.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank jean-claude juncker for his support. we are here in parliament to be criticised and i am not here to be applauded: it is our job. of course we have to be tough if we want to be politicians, and i think that in this context everything must be clear. thank you, members, for the discussion. i think after this discussion we are fully aware that this issue is still dividing europeans – at member state level and also here in the european parliament – and i can understand why. at the same time, i feel that today the chance for having a more common approach is much greater than it was a few weeks ago. i have no illusions and i have no doubts: nothing in this matter is easy, firstly because the scale of this issue is bigger than ever before, and that is why it is full of emotion – and not only in this house. first of all i would like to underline that the issue today, because of its scale, is absolutely unique. that is why nothing is easy. today we are talking about almost 70 million displaced people in the world, and almost all of them are around us. in africa and eurasia, there are 70 million. when it comes to afghans, for example, we have almost three million afghans on their way to other countries. they are today in pakistan, in iran, in iraq and in turkey. some of them, three million, are already in europe. we have to be aware that, maybe not for all of them, but for sure for the majority of them, europe is or can be the final destination. we have about eight million internally displaced people in syria. there are three million syrians in turkey, jordan and iraq. there are hundreds of thousands of potential refugees from yemen. this is why nothing is easy in this case. this is why some of us in europe are so nervous. this is why we feel something like fear, and i can understand why, because this is something new. for sure it is not a new problem but this scale, this new exodus, is something new, and some member states have no experience with this kind of problem. that is why emotions are running so high. i cannot agree with the thesis that the majority of refugees are social migrants. first of all, it is impossible today to distinguish between refugees and migrants because, in fact, all of them are escaping war, poverty and hunger – at the same time – from afghanistan, from syria and from other countries. this is why the situation is really difficult for us, because we have to treat almost all of them as potential asylum seekers. the second reason why nothing is easy in this case is because this new conflict in syria – the war in syria – could very possibly transform into a global conflict as a result of the engagement of some global powers in syria today. i have no doubt that the current situation is bad enough to provoke a new wave of refugees from syria. as i mentioned in my first speech here, the current estimate is that about three million new syrian refugees are on their way today from aleppo and the neighbourhood of aleppo. thirdly, the situation is also difficult because we have no convenient partners around us. i have no doubt that we have to cooperate with other countries, for example turkey. i can fully understand why some of us are very critical or sceptical when it comes to turkey but, on the other hand, if we want to cope with this problem we have to consider turkey as an absolutely key partner in this project. do we want to lecture turkey today or do we want turkey on board to tackle the refugee problem? i know this is a dramatic dilemma, but today we have to solve this dilemma and our opinion, the opinion of the european institutions, is that we have to try to cooperate with turkey because we have no other option. as you know, we have more difficult partners around us than turkey. turkey is not easy, but it is definitely the best possible partner when it comes to our neighbourhood in the south and in the east. it is obvious to me that we, and of course also the member states, have to engage. that is why i am absolutely sure that our next european council will be dedicated to this issue, and i hope that the discussion today here in parliament will also be a real inspiration for some leaders and for some member states – and i am sure that you know what i mean. było jeszcze pytanie od eurodeputowanego z polski, kolegi olbrychta, co możemy zrobić wspólnie, a co osobno, jako państwa członkowskie, w tej sprawie. jedna sprawa wydaje się dzisiaj oczywista: żadne państwo w europie samodzielnie nie poradzi sobie z przyjęciem i utrzymaniem uchodźców, stąd kontrowersyjna, ale konieczna idea wzajemnej pomocy, relokacji. i równocześnie dzisiaj widać, że żadne państwo graniczne nie może sobie samo poradzić z takim napływem emigrantów, z jakim mamy do czynienia dzisiaj. jedna i druga sprawa wymaga solidarnego i moim zdaniem wspólnotowego podejścia, a nie wzajemnego oskarżania się. dlatego najwyższy czas, aby pomyśleć o wspólnej odpowiedzialności europejskiej za ochronę granicy zewnętrznej. dzisiaj widać wyraźnie, że ten ciężar – bo to jest dzisiaj wyjątkowy ciężar i wyjątkowa odpowiedzialność – przekracza możliwości któregokolwiek z państw członkowskich z osobna. to jest prawdziwa rewolucja w myśleniu, ale uważam, że powinniśmy tę rewolucję przeprowadzić, to znaczy europa jako wspólnota powinna przejąć istotną część odpowiedzialności za ochronę granic zewnętrznych, w tym za organizację tak trudnych projektów jak hot spoty czy obozy dla uchodźców, wtedy, kiedy to konieczne wewnątrz europy, ale także poprzez pomoc dla organizowania takich punktów na zewnątrz europy. i to jest, moim zdaniem, bardzo poważny temat dla nas wszystkich: tu w parlamencie, w radzie europejskiej i w innych instytucjach.
in writing. for the first time, the european union countries have given a political signal that they want to start addressing the issue of immigration even if there was no unanimity from all countries. for many years we have seen countries cope with the influx of immigrants alone with little help from other countries. this is not the solidarity we are supposed to believe in. i want to see a more ambitious european union. the european union is thinking of tackling this issue globally. this is not a problem of the european union alone and cannot be solved by the european union alone. the european union must do its part but we need other states, other continents to contribute too. we can only do this through open and honest discussion. discussions are needed with third countries, including those currently holding large numbers of refugees such as turkey, lebanon and jordan. we must give our support to these countries because if one of these countries collapses, the situation will be much worse than it is. we don't think that the problem will end with syria. there's libya, afghanistan and iraq. there is a need for open discussion with the african union, the arab league and the united nations among others. i believe that the european union has the potential to be the one to start the discussion between different states that can make a difference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because closer cooperation between the member states, judicial institutions and non-governmental organisations will allow for a more effective fight against forced labour and will ease implementation of the resolutions which have been adopted so far. the protocol of 2014 also aims to educate people on the issue, which will further lead to the prevention of abuses on the labour market and to assistance being provided to the victims of such abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation that authorises member states to ratify, by the end of 2016, the sections of the ilo forced labour convention protocol that deal with eu competence. this protocol will contribute towards prevention of trafficking of persons as well as provide victims with some redress.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote which asked for consent to the draft council decision which authorises member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of the international labour organization. i have to be clear that i fully support this international convention which seeks to enhance the protection of workers and tackle forced and compulsory labour. i also agree with the aim to make progress on preventing trafficking for labour exploitation. however, this council decision impacts directly on the principle of appropriate competences. so much so that the council clearly states that the eu cannot ratify the ilo protocol, as only states can be parties thereto.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this initiative because it addresses the gaps in the forced labour convention to better prevent human trafficking. millions of people are still victims of forced labour and the convention must be implemented swiftly in order to protect victims.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the ilo forced labour convention, which represents parliament’s position on a draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of the international labour organization, since i am not in agreement that there exists exclusive eu competence arising from the areas covered by the protocol, given that both articles 82(2) and 153(2) tfeu allow parliament and the council to establish minimum standards and taking into account opinion 2/91 in which the court concluded specifically in the ilo context that the provisions of an international agreement are not of such a kind as to affect rules adopted by the eu, when both the agreement and the eu legislation set out minimum standards. therefore this raises questions about the necessity and appropriateness of having the proposed council decisions. i also believe that there is a lack of detailed analysis by the commission on the distribution of competences to justify the need for these decisions and the lack of clarity in the final text outlining the extent of the competences being exercised (exclusive or shared).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision as 4—methylamphetamine, like all new substances, should be controlled and carefully studied to foresee and prevent any undesirable effects after its use. it has already been linked to 21 deaths in the past two years and we must ensure that this does not happen again.
in writing. ‒ a risk assessment report was submitted to the commission detailing the increasing mortality rate and overall health detriments associated with the substance stated. i voted in favour of the proposal in question which aims to protect eu citizens from health and social risks by requesting member states to legislate in relation to the substance in question to further avoid fatalities, within their own drug-abuse legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal since it invites member states to subject 4-methylamphetamine, which is a psychoactive substance, to control measures across the union. this is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine which is sold on the illicit amphetamine market. so far there have been 21 fatalities registered in four member states where the presence of this substance has been detected in post-mortem samples. as a result of the health risks it poses, i agree that this psychoactive substance should be subjected to control measures across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the consultation to combat the abuse and trafficking of drugs, including the risk assessment of new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to invite the member states to subject the new psychoactive substance to control measures across the european union, which is very important. the substance 4—methylamphetamine is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine. it has emerged on the illicit amphetamine market where it is sold and used as the controlled drug, amphetamine. the information available suggests that 4-methylamphetamine is produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in the manufacture and trafficking of amphetamine. the risk assessment report reveals that there is limited scientific evidence available on the characteristics and risks of 4-methylamphetamine and points out that further studies are required on the overall health and social risks associated with the substance. however, and as a result of the health risks it poses, the council decision proposes that it should be subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision to control 5—(2-aminopropyl) indole because it is a new substance and we do not at this time know the ramifications of being exposed to it.
in writing. ‒ a risk assessment report was submitted to the commission detailing the increasing mortality rate and overall health detriments associated with the substance stated. i voted in favour of the proposal in question which aims to protect eu citizens from health and social risks by requesting member states legislate in relation to the substance in question to further avoid fatalities, within their own drug-abuse legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal since it invites member states to subject the new psychoactive substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures across the eu. this substance is commercially available on the internet and from ‘head shops’. there have been a total of 24 fatalities registered in four member states from april to august 2012. based on the available evidence and information that exists, i agree that this psychoactive substance should be subjected to control measures across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the consultation to combat the abuse and trafficking of drugs, including the risk assessment of new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to invite the member states to subject the new psychoactive substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures across the european union, which is extremely important. the substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole is commercially available on the internet and from ‘head shops’, marketed as a ‘research chemical’. the existing information and data suggest that the acute toxicity of 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole can provoke adverse effects in humans. the available evidence and information and the result of the health risks that it poses recommend that it should be subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this vote because new substances such as this one can be linked to a large number of deaths and toxicity within the member states. these substance need to be studied more closely in order to fully understand their implications.
in writing. ‒ a risk assessment report was submitted to the commission detailing the increasing mortality rate and overall health detriments associated with the substance stated. i voted in favour of the proposal in question which aims to protect eu citizens from health and social risks by requesting member states to legislate in relation to the substance in question to further avoid fatalities, within their own drug-abuse legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which invites member states to subject 251-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures across the eu. there were fatalities registered with all these psychoactive substances. for example, mdpv, which has been present on the union drug market since november 2008, is allegedly responsible for the death of 108 persons in eight member states and norway between september 2009 and august 2013. furthermore, 525 intoxication cases which were non-fatal were associated with mdpv. ah-7921 is responsible for 15 fatalities; 251-nbome has been responsible for four deaths; and methoxetamine was responsible for 20 deaths. for these reasons i strongly support and voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the consultation to combat the abuse and trafficking of drugs, including the risk assessment of new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to invite the member states to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures across the european union, which is extremely important. the substance 25i-nbome is openly marketed and sold on the internet as a ‘research chemical’ and information obtained from seizures, collected samples, user websites and internet retailers suggests that it is being sold as a drug in its own right and also marketed as a ‘legal’ replacement for lsd. mdpv is similar to that for cocaine and methamphetamine, albeit more potent and longer lasting. acute toxicity can provoke adverse effects on humans. it is widely available from internet suppliers and retailers, ‘head shops’ and street-level dealers. methoxetamine is a substance which is chemically similar to ketamine and the internationally-controlled substance phencyclidine (pcp). the available evidence and information and the result of the health risks that it poses recommend that these substances should be subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this vote because these chemicals are new and we currently do not know the ramifications down the road that they may have for the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ a risk assessment report was submitted to the commission detailing the increasing mortality rate and overall health detriments associated with the substance stated. i voted in favour of the proposal in question which aims to protect eu citizens from health and social risks by requesting member states legislate in relation to the substance in question to further avoid fatalities, within their own drug-abuse legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures across the eu. 4,4'-dmar consists of two synthetic stimulants detected in nine member states. furthermore there have been 31 deaths associated with this substance registered in three member states. on the other hand, mt-45 is one of a series of analgesics. a total of 28 fatalities were recorded by one member state. based on the evidence and information currently available i agree that these substances should be subjected to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support the consultation to combat the abuse and trafficking of drugs, including the risk assessment of new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to invite the member states to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures across the european union, which is extremely important. the substances 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 are two synthetic stimulants controlled under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. they emerged on the new psychoactive substances market sold by internet retailers, and are now available on the street market. there are several studies on animals indicating that the acute toxicity of mt-45 is several times higher than that of morphine. the substance appears to be mostly used in the home environment either by users willing to try a new substance or by opioid dependent users with no access to heroin or any other opioid. the risk assessment reports reveal that there is limited scientific evidence available on 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 and they pointed out that further research would be needed to determine the health and social risks that they pose. however, the evidence and information currently available and the results of the health risks that they pose recommend that they should be subjected to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because there needs to be a fund for citizens in these countries that offer a fast and rapid response in order to help them recover from disasters. the fund has been accessed by greece for flooding and bulgaria for severe winter conditions. the budget will not be amended instead the remaining 50 million euros will be used as advancements for this fund.
in writing. ‒ this proposal to use of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) showcases the solidarity and cooperation that is possible within europe and within the policies of the european union. the eusf is an annual fund dedicated to potential emergencies and natural disasters in member states. given that two natural disasters have already occurred in the eu since the start of the calendar year, the parliament fully supports the allocation of financial support to aid bulgaria (due to severe and frigid winter months) and greece (heavy flooding in the evros and central/western regions). moments like these are opportunities to put aside our political differences and come together to aid fellow europeans in need.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in relation to a disaster in bulgaria and two disasters in greece which occurred in early 2015. the full amount of the mobilisation will be financed through the reallocation of the available appropriations for advances in the general budget of the eu for the financial year of 2015. i voted in favour of this report since i agree with helping member states which are hit by natural disasters that have devastating effects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of distribution of funds to bulgaria and greece after regional disasters in january and february of 2015. these funds will aid bulgaria after severe winter conditions and greece after extensive regional flooding.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report that concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. it is very important to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity for a total amount of eur 16.274,765 in commitment and payment appropriations. this financial assistance relates to a disaster in bulgaria due to a severe winter conditions and two disasters in greece (flooding in evros and central greece) that occurred in early 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because currently only agricultural products with a specific geographical indication (gi) and made in certain quantities are granted an eu wide protection. on the other hand, traditional european products must be preserved within communities as these products are directly linked to ways of life within these communities and preservers their identity which will benefit tourism, culture, employment and trade.
in writing. ‒ geographic indications (gi) are an extremely valuable component to the european economy and fully deserve consideration for expansion. while such labels are protected and regulated by eu law, they are currently limited to wine, spirits, and foodstuffs. however, the european commission has recently considered extending these indicators to non-agricultural/non-food products. this proposal calls upon the commission to draft legislation that acts upon this idea, and i fully support this measure. expanding geographic indicators of more products in the european economy has the potential to boost consumer awareness and confidence in small markets and strengthen local economies across the continent. this will also strengthen non-agricultural products which are identifiable with malta such as glass blowing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since it puts pressure on the commission to present a proposal for a unified system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. i voted in favour to send an important signal to the commission which on this point seems reluctant to make a proposal in the near future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which asks the commission for a legislative proposal to extend the geographic protection to non-agricultural products. such an extension would create single european system of protection of geographical indications that would exploit the positive economic effects of protecting the distinctiveness and quality of traditional products, provide consumers with reliable information on their place and method of production and help combat counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this ini report, which aims to put pressure on the commission to come up with a proposal for a unified system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, based on the one already existing for agricultural products. i find it important that the report proposes a system that would allow the co-existence of already established rights, but offering the possibility of european-wide registration and uniform protection and guarantees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that this measure should help foster a sustainable recovery in greece in the current situation, including its migration crisis situation. it will help in addressing the current severe liquidity shortages and lack of public funds.
in writing. ‒ refinancing cohesion policy in the eu is an example of responsible economic aid that provides opportunities to spur growth, investment and job creation. it is positive that this proposal is fully prepared to take on the urgent challenges in greece and for this reason i support the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and the legislative resolution to provide additional pre-financing in the current financial period, as well as to increase to 100% the co-financing rate for 2007 to 2013 operational programmes for greece. greece has been very much affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, so much so that it has difficulties to co-finance the investments of the european structural and investment funds. considering the urgency of the support that is required in greece, i support a simplified procedure in this case.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis in greece is compounded by a lack of public funds and a liquidity shortage that must be addressed immediately. i therefore voted in favour of this measure to transfer funds to provide pre-financing for certain job-related programmes in greece.
in writing. ‒ greece has been very much affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. it faces a critical lack of public funds and consequently is in difficulties to co-finance the investments of european structural and investment funds. therefore the ec had come up with the proposal to provide additional pre-financing in the current financial period (2014-2020), as well as to increase - to 100% - the co-financing rate for 2007-2013 operational programmes. this will allow greece – in addition to the frontloading of eur 2 025,600 mn and possible savings for the greek budget of close to eur 2 bn - to finish ongoing projects and to reimburse beneficiaries. i fully support the report on common provisions of the european structural and investment fund with regard to specific measures for greece and that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i understand that the adam opel could be sold within europe only so it could not emerge in the marker of other continents. therefore, this report will support the funding to help providing assistance to workers who are affected by this disadvantage.
in writing. ‒ contractual duties made adam opel unable to trade internationally severely disadvantaging the business and the workers. these measures would help redundant workers to find new jobs by providing them with career guidance and peer groups, vocational training, business start-up advisory services, job scouting, mentoring and advisory services after reemployment and training allowances. i have thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which provides for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in germany in reference to redundancies at adam opel ag and one supplier operating in the manufacturing of motor vehicles. the redundancies were caused by a dramatic drop in car sales in europe. employees who lose their jobs should be supported across all of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the unions disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 2 692 workers in the automotive industry in germany due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because i am in agreement to give the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund (egaf) in germany. the application relates to 2 881 redundancies in adam opel ag and 1 supplier, operating in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, within the period 15 august 2014 – 15 december 2014. the egaf funding of eur 6 958,623 shall contribute to help 2 692 former workers through a coordinated package of vocational training measures such as career guidance, peer groups/workshops, business start-up advisory service and similar. the redundancies were caused by a dramatic drop in car sales in europe, on the background of the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i understand that ford genk is the largest employer of the limburg province; however, its production decreased 15.58% while the global production increased 18.9%. this phenomenon has affected workers as well and i think the funding will certainly improve their conditions, thus i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ major structural changes in case of ford genk necessitate funds to be allocated. these measures co-financed by the egf would help 4 500 redundant workers to find new jobs by providing them with individual job search assistance and professional development as well as a variety of training courses and hiring bonuses. in this case ford genk being the largest employer in the region as well as having the most dismissals of employees in the area raising unemployment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that provides for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in belgium relating to redundancies in ford genk and 11 suppliers operating in the motor vehicle industry. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns, mainly in the production of passenger cars. i believe that employees made redundant should be supported through training and re-training and hence i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the unions disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 4,500 workers in the automotive industry in belgium due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because it is important to give the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium. the application relates to 5 111 redundancies in ford genk and 11 suppliers or downstream producers, operating in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, within the period 1 september 2014-31 december 2014. the egaf funding of eur 6 268 564 shall contribute to help 4 500 former workers through a coordinated package of personalised services including individual job search assistance, case management and general information services, training and re-training, allowances and incentives. the redundancies were caused by the major structural changes in the world trade patterns, directly linked to globalisation, namely the production of passenger cars having decreased by 14.6% in the eu-27 between 2007 and 2012, while in the same period china more than doubled its market share.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that alitalia needs recovery after the serious economic disruption. the funding will also improve workers' conditions that are also affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ due to serious economic disruption and a decrease in passengers, redundancies have occurred with large portions of more being laid off without other job and training. funds in this case will provide opportunities and compensation to workers and training to address unemployment. i thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund in italy, which relates to redundancies in the group alitalia caused by the major structural changes in the international air transport market linked to globalisation. i agree with offering active job-search support, training and other measures which help employees particularly employees who are over 50, integrate back into the employment market, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the unions disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 184 workers formerly employed by alitalia in italy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because it is important to give the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in italy. the application relates to 1 247 redundancies in gruppo alitalia within the period 31 august 2014 – 30 december 2014. the egaf funding of eur 1 414 848 shall contribute to help 184 former workers through a coordinated package of measures such as intake and skill assessment, active job-search support, training, reimbursement of mobility costs, hiring benefits for over 50s. the redundancies were caused by were caused by the major structural changes in the international air transport market directly linked to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that local authorities are regarded as essential state and institutional actors in local governance. local authorities are important in the emergence of grassroots democracy and sustainable territorial development on the basis of local-community involvement. this will have an essential role to play in achieving the post-2015 objectives. local governments are on the frontline to deal with an increasing number of crises, but that most of the time they lack the capacity, and the means, to develop an effective response and the eu should support their development. i believe that it is more effective to act at local level in order to improve living conditions for communities.
in writing. ‒ local government is the lifeblood and foundation of europe. they are the frontlines of democracy and are able to listen clearly to the voices and concerns of citizens, with strong potential to directly impact people's lives. this is because local government requires honour and sacrifice to be successful. corruption, funds mismanagement, bribery, and other faults have no place in modern europe and member states. as an mep i strongly urge the european parliament to use its power to maintain checks over the effectiveness of local governments using civil conduct codes and regulations to root out ineffectiveness. in order to provide services for citizens, promote sustainable practices for the future i am voting in favour of this proposal because it recognises the invaluable importance of regional governance in our society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since it welcomes the establishment of a partnership at eu level with local authorities and encourages the establishment of partnership arrangements between these local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries in areas such as training and human capacity. i believe that local authorities can play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, which have just been adopted in new york and which shape the new global development agenda for the next fifteen years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the role of local authorities as essential stakeholders in regards to development of community involvement and democracy. additionally, it stresses the need for fairer transfer of resources, especially for the benefit of local authorities.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, which i believe is very positive that the local authorities will play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, which have just been adopted in new york and which shape the new global development agenda for the next fifteen years. las play a crucial role in safeguarding vulnerable populations in fragile states in crisis. the report thus proposes innovative partnerships with las to ensure that local authorities are the main actors implementing the new agenda at the level closest to citizens. the report stresses that the new guidelines set out in the commission’s communication on las recognising their role as state stakeholders represent a major step forward for the eu’s new development agenda.
mr president, now we have it in black and white that at least one car manufacturer toyed with the air people breathe. for me it is evident that the tests we have in place to measure emissions are not working, and independent testing of cars in real driving conditions is required. there are two issues which until now have been given very little importance, particularly since the commissioner spoke about sanctions. first, employees: this scandal might put jobs at risk, and employees should not be the ones to shoulder the responsibility. second: consumers, who paid for cars, believing that they did not emit more than what was promised, are not the ones to blame, nor should they be the ones suffering the consequences. i urge the commission to keep in mind both employees and consumers to ensure that neither one nor the other will end up paying the price. i would like to know what the commission intends to do in this regard. (applause)
we have long hoped for an agreement to bring stability to libya. but if we are to remain in a situation where no agreement is reached, i believe that the united nations, with the support of the european union and also the international community, should support all those who are willing to reach an agreement and shun those who are not willing to collaborate for the good of their country, particularly if the date of 20 october is to be maintained. i make it clear. the united nations effort to bring about a process of reconciliation in libya and eventually a government of national unity should continue to be supported. i believe that genuine libyans look to libya as their homeland, that land where violent attacks should stop and where stability and peace should reign. to do so, however, requires that all libyan parties continue to participate actively in this political process. i therefore hope to see a peace agreement put into practice and begin to pave the way for a stable and secure libya.
mr president, the abolition of the death penalty is essential for the protection of human dignity, which is fundamental in the effective protection of human rights. let us be clear: when we speak of the abolition of the death penalty, we are not saying that a crime is to remain unpunished. without getting engrossed in the debate about punishments being proportionate to the crime, there is, in relation to the death penalty, an even more fundamental issue at stake. we cannot tolerate the imposition of a punishment which is itself a violation of human rights since it attacks the very core of human dignity. when one considers that vulnerable persons, such as minors, are still subject to capital punishment, and when one sees that the death penalty is often associated with judicial systems which do not aspire to – never mind attain – the highest standards of fair process, then the eu must show a stronger commitment towards abolishing this punishment worldwide. it is good that the european institutions and member states are acting to raise awareness against the death penalty on the day dedicated to this, but stronger and ongoing commitment is needed. we need to strengthen our political and financial support to encourage public debate; strengthen public opposition through education and awareness raising; support strategies for replacing the death penalty; and take concrete steps to secure legal assistance and fair trials.
no i do not. i would prefer that the debate goes on. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8) from mr korwin-mikke)
this is a clear way of how the european union is making a difference for citizens. with this regulation we are addressing the complaints of those people and traders who complain that it is not worth it to look for your money when you want to involve a court outside your country. they complain that these types of procedures are expensive and are sceptical about their effectiveness and efficiency. this regulation directly addresses those obstacles that have so far prevented citizens from seeking their rights across borders. reductions and regulation of court costs and even incidental costs for these procedures are therefore proposed. the regulation reduces the cost, time and red tape of settling monetary claims through a 'fast track' but fair procedure. fast track procedure yes but not for the sake of justice and therefore the use of technology and the importance of procedural aspects that create equality of arms in proceedings is recognised. this regulation is of particular importance for those who participate in online transactions whether they are individuals, consumers or traders. this simplified procedure should attract confidence by ensuring fair but also timely procedures. it is therefore important that member states prepare their facilities and resources so that this procedure is a truly simplified one that cuts out unnecessary bureaucracy. i also encourage traders and entrepreneurs who have not yet taken the opportunity to exploit the potential of the digital platform in business to see this regulation as another invitation to harness the potential and opportunities of the internal market and the digital market.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the proposed dates for part-sessions and finalise the days set for plenary duties next year. this is essential to help with the planning of members’ activities.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the proposed parliament calendar of part sessions in 2017 and that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to give consent as i believe that we need to provide all the support necessary for tunisia in its transition to democracy, particularly through economic and social benefits. this can help boost their economy and their growth potential. since europe is one of their main trading partners it is important that this is an eu priority. with this partnership we can also help improve their education and training programmes.
in writing. ‒ eu foreign policy is strengthened by creating relationships with third countries. the recommendation for a protocol to the euromed agreement will promote reform, modernisation and transition in the country as well as benefit the eu neighbourhood policy. thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving consent to the conclusion of the protocol since this provides the right tools for the eu to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s transition to democracy. at the moment the tunisian economy has deteriorated both domestically and in the international sphere. it is very important that tunisia is given support and it is also important for the tunisian issue to become an eu priority.
in writing. ‒ the protocol of the euro-mediterranean agreement will allow the european union to support the tunisian economy and people while increasing our cooperation with their governmental institutions and civil society. therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia was the birthplace of the arab spring. tunisia today is confronted with a deteriorated economic crisis after the terrorist attacks at bardo national museum and sousse. in this context it is vital to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s transition to democracy. that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. back in 2007, a small claims procedure was created in order to reduce costs in cross-border cases. the plan was designed to help small and medium-sized companies with their claims. enhancement is needed as the european small claims procedure needs to further reduce costs and litigation time. since some member states differ in usage there also needs to be transparency in these proceedings along with legal certainty concerning modern technology.
in writing. ‒ this regulation facilitates access to justice across borders, thereby enabling for individuals as well as for companies more effective and efficient enforcement of their rights. it will provide a quicker and more cost-effective judicial remedy to enforce money claims within the internal market. this legislative instrument is particularly important to those who participate in transactions online within the digital single market, be it individuals or companies, as it provides them with a quick but just remedy. i encourage those businesses and entrepreneurs who have not as yet harnessed the potential of the digital platform for trade in goods and services to see this regulation as another invitation to take the impetus towards harnessing the opportunities presented by the digital single market as well as to participate in the full potential of the internal market. this simplified procedure will only obtain the trust it deserves from businesses and consumers if the safeguards stated therein, ensuring a fast but fair procedure, are correctly followed by national authorities. all too often we have been told that it is not worth pursuing a claim across borders for reasons of cost and pedantic procedures. the regulation keeps costs to a minimum and simplifies procedures by introducing also the use of technology in collecting the evidence needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and the legislative resolution on the european small claims procedure which has the ultimate aim of simplifying and speeding up cross-border small claims litigation in civil and commercial matters. what is particularly interesting in this report is the fact that the threshold has increased to eur 5 000 with a 5 year review clause; the fact that the use of long-distance communication and videoconferencing for hearings are encouraged and a 5 year review clause to assess whether labour claims should be included in the scope of the regulation or not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the resolution. the ability for businesses and consumers to efficiently and justly pursue claims judgements across national borders is a vital component of the internal market framework. this resolution would increase the amount of monetary damages covered by the small claims procedure, which is significantly cheaper to utilise than other methods. additionally it will further lower the costs for wronged parties to seek redress from the small claims framework, particularly the ability of smes to retrieve damages across borders more cost-effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour on the report on the european small claims procedure and european order for payment procedure, which aims to simplify and speed up cross-border small claims litigation in civil and commercial matters, and cut costs. regulation (ec) no 861/2007 established a european small claims procedure available to litigants as an alternative to the procedures existing under the laws of the member states. the commission proposed a revision of the regulation in 2014, in order to raise the threshold for its applicability, as well as make it more accessible and more used. the most relevant points which are included in the final agreement are: increasing the threshold to eur 5 000, with a 5-year review clause in order to see whether a further increase is possible; encouraging the use of long-distance communication and videoconferencing for hearings; a 5-year review clause in order to assess the possibility of including labour claims in the scope of the regulation; court fees should be proportionate to the claim, and assistance for the use of the procedure free of charge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as air pollution continues to be a significant problem in most of the member states despite numerous european and international agreements. the proposed amendments seek, among other things, to better classify combustion plants, avoid double regulation and modify emission limits in order to lower air pollution levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and in favour of the legislative resolution. i am glad that the negotiations between parliament, the commission and the council managed to reach a compromise on emission limit values for existing and new installations while maintaining the compliance dates as stipulated in the com proposal. it includes also an extension of the scope to cover the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions and an obligation for member states to assess the need to apply stricter emission limit values in areas not complying with eu air quality standards.
in writing. ‒ this resolution works to limit the air pollutants expelled by a relatively unregulated classification of combustion plant while also ensuring that unnecessary burdens are not imposed. therefore i voted in favour of the measures it proposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that poor air quality is a serious threat to health and the environment and it is essential to promote compliance with existing air quality rules and push for maintaining tough emission limit values in line with the role of helping to shape a credible eu climate policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposed amendments to the directive allow for harmonisation of composition and labelling requirements to international standards as set out in the codex alimentarius, which will allow for better regulation, which, in turn, will benefit consumers. the proposal aims to improve the flow of information between the producers whose products contain caseins and caseinates which will lead to better understanding and better labelling of the final products that will reach consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and legislative resolution, for since several changes have taken place since the entry into force of the directive that provides for the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates, and these need to be taken into account. among the most positive points is the fact that the amendments to the commission proposal provide that the power to adopt delegated acts, in order to adapt the annexes to the directive to international standards and technical progress, should not be conferred on the commission for an unlimited period of time, but rather for five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the resolution. this proposal overhauls certain aspects of the rules regarding caseins and caseinates to bring them in line with the international standards, along with furthering labelling standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the amendments proposed, among others, offer more efficient sanctions against those who avoid the payment of taxes and social security contributions; clearer environmental and labour rules in public procurement procedures and better monitoring of companies to prevent fraud and misuse of funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and the legislative resolution to allow the financial regulation and the related rules of application to enter into force on 1 january 2016. the financial regulation contains the rules and principles of the establishment and implementation of the eu budget and is applicable to all areas of expenditure and all revenue; and i believe that it is important to align the financial regulation with the new directives on concessions and public procurements.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it would modify the financial regulation regarding the use of funds by the european union, mostly focusing on the area of procurement. these changes ensure proper adherence to environmental, labour, and other social standards, efficient use of budget funds, and clarify the grounds by which firms are excluded from the procurement process.
in writing. ‒ the financial regulation contains the rules and principles of the establishment and the implementation of the eu budget and is applicable to all areas of expenditure and all revenue. i am in agreement with the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union and therefore i have voted in favour.
mr president, we need to develop a better way of mobilising cash for investment on a national and european basis. the usa does this much better than europe. it is claimed that opening up new ways of mobilising capital on a european scale will bring us closer to the american levels of getting cash to enterprises. but in parallel with this, capital markets need to be promoted on a national basis. barriers, regulatory and cultural, need to be removed. many smes and many start-ups would prefer to experiment and innovate with investment and expansion at home before they step outside their borders. if they make a success there, a move towards other european markets will be seen as achievable and attainable. indeed, the cultural factors that define entrepreneurship cannot be ignored. it is necessary to define exactly what makes capital markets in the usa so much more dynamic. however, it would be unwise to implement a capital markets union (cmu) simply by transposing the us model to europe. the proposals made by the commission do not go in this direction. debt to finance investment is much more prevalent in europe than elsewhere. clearly we need to encourage a shift towards equity as contrasted to debt-based instruments in financing even small-scale projects. again, that is best done by starting from a national level. i would in fact urge that, in this context, special attention is paid to promoting the financial organisation of equities to fund non-speculative investments by services and smes in peripheral, isolated and island regions of the union. the commission is doing the right thing by emphasising the digital sector. here, a new generation of european innovators and entrepreneurs is emerging. they might be more willing to attempt new ways of meeting financial risks and challenges than their predecessors. in all this, the proposed step-by-step approach is praiseworthy. too many new procedures and regulations to follow would, in the end, only increase barriers to entry and increase costs. let us create and promote a common cmu, but let us use a light touch; one that makes a proper distinction between the need for regulation and over-regulation.
payment services are essential and inevitable in everyday life but despite this, the current legislative framework on payments remains fragmented and very expensive not only for consumers but also for businesses. everyone needs to be at ease and protected when it comes to payments. there should be easy remedies if things go wrong. to this end, the european union needs to ensure that payment services are affordable and accessible to all so that consumers and businesses can truly benefit from the internal market. however, consumers often feel uncomfortable especially when buying online and when the sellers are based in another country. consumers are rightly concerned because many experience problems of payment fraud and lack of information or access to redress where this is the case. the continued development of the internal market for electronic payments is therefore crucial to have a wider choice of better prices while strengthening trust and confidence in the internal market. therefore, tomorrow's vote in parliament is a crucial step towards creating an internal market for all payments in the european union and ensuring cheaper and more peace of mind electronic payments, widening consumer choice as well as stimulating competition and innovation in the internal market. this directive together with regulations on capping charges are a clear example of how the citizen can benefit. there will be measures to improve consumer rights and strengthen protection against fraud, potential abuse and payment problems.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for this very rich discussion. after this, i am all the more convinced that closing the gender pay gap needs a comprehensive approach. that means legislative and non-legislative measures and, of course, efforts from all the relevant stakeholders at both eu and national level. the effective application and enforcement of equal pay in member states are essential to ensure the rights enshrined in the directive. this remains the biggest challenge. going forward, the commission will examine national measures following the recommendation on pay transparency. we will assess the need for any additional measures at eu level. of course this will include looking at whether we should review the gender equality recast directive.
in writing.– gender inequality in the field of employment hampers the potential of women to fully use their skills and abilities in contributing to society, and seriously impacts on the living conditions of european families. no mother should be made to choose between earning an income or caring for her child, elderly, disabled or other vulnerable family member. parents have the exclusive discretion of deciding how to balance their family responsibilities with their employment, and policies must aim at setting up different frameworks within which parents can make a free and informed decision as to what is best for their own family and circumstances. in this regard, the eu needs to offer evidence-based options for family-focused growth and an integrated approach to equality in employment. policies must also seek to propose measures which, while facilitating work-life balance, do not seriously prejudice smes. this must be accompanied by an understanding that an employee who reaches a work-life balance is a better employee. i have voted in favour of quotas and similar measures, as temporary provisions addressing the current situation, which are to be systematically reviewed.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of this proposal is to reduce costs, improve the security of payments and facilitate the emergence of new players and innovative new mobile and internet payment methods. i voted in favour as it will help in providing a better service to consumers in a more secure environment.
in writing. ‒ the current payment services directive is in need of change, and i applaud this directive for moving to update the payment services industry. consumers need a level playing field, and innovations in this area also need to be regulated. this directive aims to accomplish this. reducing restrictions on third-party payment services providers means the consumer can have more options when shopping or conducting financial business online. this measure will also improve the security of payments online and allow for a competitive payment services market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and the legislative resolution which proposes a review of the first payment services directive to reflect new market developments, particularly the need to increase the role of third-party actors in payment services. it is positive that the compromise reached ensures security and transparency for consumers and provides also better protection in case of transactions where the amount of money is known in advance and in the framework contract between a consumer and a payment services provider.
in writing. ‒ this resolution features much wording that has been amended by parliament on the commission’s proposal regarding payment services in the internal market. the final, amended, proposal will work to harmonise the rapidly changing payments market and its regulation in the european union across national borders – focusing on digital and mobile payments in particular. such standardisation will improve consumer welfare and ease the burdens on payment services firms attempting to operate transnationally. therefore i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on payment services in the internal market, ensuring the development of new practices and new players in payment services while ensuring safety and transparency for consumers, which is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not believe that this legislation will decrease the numbers of evictions and resolve bad banking practices in spain. the resolution refers to the numerous petitions received that have brought to light thousands of tragic personal cases in which citizens experienced the partial or entire loss of their life savings, and these petitions highlight the barriers that consumers face when seeking to obtain accurate and essential information on financial instruments. inter alia, the resolution asks the commission to put forward a legislative proposal on family insolvency and second chances for individuals and households, and calls on the commission to reflect on a possible review of the scope of directive 2014/17/eu, in line with the review clause set out in the directive itself, to ensure that debt-settlement procedures and the contractual consumer-lender relationship are included in all contract phases. it also calls on the commission to draw up a comprehensive eu-wide blacklist of financial entities that regularly engage in bad banking practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which was put forward by the petitions committee and calls on the commission and the european central bank to evaluate the spanish arbitration mechanism which hears cases of citizens who are victims of financial fraud. this resolution is based on a large number of petitions to the european parliament denouncing abusive terms in mortgage contracts and risky financial instruments in spain. the petitions brought numerous tragic personal cases where citizens have lost their homes and where a number of people, mainly elderly people lost all or part of their life-savings. i agree with the request to the commission to put forward a legislative proposal on family insolvency and second chances for individuals and households and to elaborate a comprehensive eu-wide blacklist of financial entities that regularly engage in bad bank practices.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this resolution as i believe that it features a number of inaccurate claims regarding financial firms in spain and the efficacy of the spanish government’s policies in combating some of the problems resulting from the 2008 financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments in the eu, with particular reference to the case of spain. the situation in spain has been shown to be critical: since 2008, more than 700 000 people have completely or partially lost their savings and nearly 400 000 have been evicted from their homes. that is why it is important to put an end to infringements of eu consumer rights laws in spain relating to banks. the resolution calls on the spanish government to act to put an end to this situation, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there are better alternative approaches for punishment rather than the use of death penalty. i am also a strong advocate of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of the death penalty is essential for the protection of human dignity, which is fundamental in the effective protection of human rights. when we speak of the abolition of the death penalty, we are not saying that crimes should remain unpunished. without getting engrossed in the debate about punishments being proportionate to the crime, there is, in relation to the death penalty, an even more fundamental issue at stake. we cannot tolerate the imposition of a punishment which is itself a violation of human rights since it attacks the very core of human dignity. when one considers that vulnerable persons, such as minors, are still subject to capital punishment, and when one sees that the death penalty is often associated with judicial systems which do not aspire to – never mind attain – the highest standards of fair process, then the eu must show a stronger commitment towards abolishing this punishment worldwide. it is good that the european institutions and member states are acting to raise awareness against the death penalty on the day dedicated to this cause, but stronger and ongoing commitment is needed. we need to strengthen our political and financial support and take concrete steps to secure legal assistance and fair trials.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because even though we are in 2015 there is still a very long way to go before the death penalty is abolished world-wide. out of the 58 countries in the world that still have the death penalty, 22 of them carried out executions during 2014. the 13th world day against the death penalty will take place on 10 october 2015 and will be the opportunity for the european union to reaffirm its leading role in the drive for the abolition of the death penalty and a moratorium on executions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it affirms the union’s commitment to a moratorium on, and an eventual end to, the death penalty internationally. we are against the death penalty wherever it is used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. the 13th world day against the death penalty is on 10 october 2015 and is an opportunity for the european union to reaffirm its leading role in the drive for the abolition of the death penalty and a moratorium on executions. while substantial progress has been made in a number of countries, there is still a long way to go before the death penalty is abolished worldwide. in 2014, executions were carried out in 22 of the 58 countries and territories in the world that retain the death penalty. in some of these, unfortunately, the number of executions either remains high or has risen significantly in recent years. the theme of this year’s international day focuses attention on death sentences for drug-related crimes. contrary to the general trend of recent decades, an increasing number of countries have enacted laws permitting the death penalty for drug-related offences. this development also needs to be addressed by the european union. the eu guidelines on the death penalty, revised in 2013, state clearly that the death penalty ‘shall also not be imposed for drug-related crimes’.
in writing. ‒ there are certainly many lessons that can be learned from the red mud disaster in hungary. we must take steps to prevent the loss of lives as wells as destruction of the environment. this is an opportunity to strengthen, and focus more closely on, the implementation of eu law, as an analysis of the causes of the disaster showed that there were links between the spill and non-compliance with eu law. hence not only hungary but all member states can learn from this. i agree that more control and preventive measures need to be introduced. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which highlights that even now hungary and other member states with mining plants should be correctly implementing eu laws. furthermore, it is important that legislation be reinforced and properly applied. i agree with the resolution which states that there needs to be a stronger emphasis on disaster prevention, through research and development into the treatment of hazardous waste, and by more stringent environmental inspections.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it examines the lessons to be learned from this tragedy and urges member states to reflect on how their own policies might incorporate them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is timed to coincide with the 5th anniversary of the collapse of a waste reservoir at an aluminium plant in hungary, on 4 october 2010, releasing almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, flooding several villages and killing 10 people. there were up to 150 injured and the pollution covered vast areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites. the accident highlighted the poor implementation of eu laws, deficiencies in inspections and gaps in relevant eu legislation. red mud is waste generated in the industrial production of aluminium, and it poses one of the biggest disposal problems in the extractive industries. therefore, the commission and member states must step up efforts to improve, and ensure the proper implementation of, all eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry in order to avoid a repeat of such an environmental and human disaster.
in writing. ‒ the eu is committed to promoting gender equality and ensuring gender mainstreaming in all of its actions. gender equality and women’s empowerment (gewe) is a precondition for achieving post-2015 sustainable development goals and is also a self-standing human rights issue that should be pursued regardless of its benefits for development and growth. it is evident that progress towards gewe has been slow and uneven and that no country in the world has fully closed the gender gap. this lack of progress has been exacerbated by the persistent and chronic underinvestment in gewe. i agree that we need a step-change in eu action on gewe and a renewed political commitment by the european external action service (eeas) and the commission to improve performance. i strongly believe in and support further work in this area, but i could not vote in favour of this report as i am against the use of abortion, which the report fully supports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which deals with the renewal of the eu plan of action on gender equality on women's empowerment in development. i completely agree with the emphasis that the resolution makes when it states that specific focus is needed to ensure girls' access to education, to allow them to live lives free from violence and remove discriminatory legislation and practices whilst we empower girls and young women globally. however the same resolution alludes to abortion which is currently illegal in malta and which i am against. so my favour in favour is made with this proviso.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for renewal of the eu plan of action on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development. however, i voted against the paragraphs calling on member states to implement measures on abortion, sexual and reproductive rights. the eu has no competences on abortion policy at national level and, therefore, cannot interfere in member states’ policies in this area, which we should fully respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe in the equality of men and women, especially in the workplace, and i think it especially unjust that people should receive different salaries for the same work simply on the basis of gender. i also believe that there should be balanced gender representation on boards. discrimination against women in the workplace is not only unfair but also damaging to society, the economy and the upbringing of future generations.
in writing. ‒ gender inequality in the field of employment hampers the potential of women to fully use their skills and abilities in contributing to society while seriously impacts living conditions of european families. no mother should be made to choose between earning an income or caring for her child, elderly, disabled or other vulnerable family member. parents have the exclusive discretion of deciding how to balance their family responsibilities with their employment and policies must aim at setting up different frameworks within which parents can make a free and informed decision as to what is best for their own family and circumstances. in this regard, the eu needs to offer evidence-based options for family focused growth and an integrated approach of equality in employment. in doing so policies must also seek to propose measures which while facilitating work-life balance do not seriously prejudice smes. this must be accompanied by an understanding that an employee who reaches a work-life balance is a better employee. i have voted in favour of quotas and similar measures as temporary provisions addressing the current situation and which are to be systematically reviewed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. i believe that this report offers a very interesting insight. each and every member state should be committed to ensure equal treatment at the place of work and should be strongly against discrimination on the basis of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation or age. the fight against undeclared and precarious work should be a strong one particularly since it impacts negatively both economic growth as well as social well-being in general. an issue of concern is the call to the commission to take action by means of legislative measures to address the gender pensions gap at the eu and national level when member states remain responsible for the design and operation of the social protection systems. having said that the eu must provide valuable contributions to the activities of the member states in tackling the gender gap in pensions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it proposes many measures that would address the stagnation in tackling the gender pay gap. the european union should do more to narrow the gender pay gap and also address the regional discrepancies in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a revision of the recast directive, since its transposition into national law has proven insufficient to reduce differences in pay for men and women. it is essential to call for pressure on unequal pay practices and to promote wage transparency, as requested by trade unions and gender equality bodies. the report also calls on member states to take steps to reverse the burden of proof, so the employer would have to prove that differences in treatment have not resulted in any discrimination.
in writing.– tomorrow’s european summit is another step in the right direction for the european union, which is this time giving a clear indication on the need for better, stronger cooperation with countries of origin and transit in the light of the global international crisis, paired with the adequate protection of europe’s borders. the crisis europe currently faces cannot be seen in a vacuum, and europe must up its game in terms of assessing the root causes of migration and ensure that european policies do not add to the push factors forcing people to flee. the valletta summit, to be discussed in tomorrow’s talks, can act as an opportunity to not only enhance our dialogue with our african partners but also better understand the challenges growing african economies face, such as their own fight against criminality and human trafficking, in order to address this global issue in a comprehensive and holistic manner. this parliament has been calling for internal solidarity in this field for many years now, and we have finally made great strides in this respect. it is now time to show external solidarity with our sister continent and tackle this global crisis with a global approach.
madam president, today i am hearing the words ‘idealistic’ and ‘realistic’ as though these are two opposing issues at the extreme ends of the same line. why can we not act by being ambitious and realistic? they are complementary to one another and not contradictory to one another. climate change is a global problem with grave implications, its worst impact being felt by the most vulnerable and poorer countries, and whilst technological advances will help, each and every one of us has the strength and power to change things. i am proud that back in 1989 malta put climate change on the agenda of the un general assembly. that is why arguments that we can wait for another century or so to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are totally unacceptable to me. we cannot wait any longer. time is of the essence. i am convinced that the commission understands this and can continue to be the key player fighting for a really ambitious and legally-binding global agreement.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their contributions, which demonstrate once more what a burning issue this is and how urgent our response must be. the commission is determined to confront all forms of hatred with equal attention: anti-semitism, islamophobia, anti-gypsyism, homophobia or other forms of hatred. i want to stress one thing: the law must be enforced, and laws in the eu prohibit discrimination. criminal law is here to punish all forms of hate crime. i want to react to what ms kozłowska-rajewicz said about using these repressive instruments. yes, i must say we are looking at all ways of tackling the problem, and these are among the instruments which we need to use. you know that we are now enforcing the framework decision of 2008 which was adopted to combat all forms of intolerance and xenophobia. we have been able to enforce this as of 1 december last year. we carried out an inventory of the situation in the member states and found that in many member states this framework decision has not been implemented properly, and there are still member states where holocaust denial is not punishable under criminal law. that must be changed. i have already alerted the member states, especially those where the framework decision has not been implemented in a satisfactory way, to the fact that we will strictly require its implementation. let me add one personal remark. yes, i agree with all who spoke here about the necessity of understanding the reasons why we are seeing such an extreme increase in intolerance in the eu – be it the financial crisis, or be it terrorist attacks that took place in europe. there are many, many different reasons which we must understand. my personal view is that what i would term insufficiently smart budgetary policy is part of the problem. just look at the public budgets: at how much we have invested in our stomachs, how much less in our brains, and how much we have invested in our hearts. in terms of culture, have we invested enough to sustain positive emotions in europe, as hate is a negative emotion? we must change this, and we must urge the member states, and all those who take decisions on the use of public money, to change it. we want to be in the lead here, and i am already working on the budget for next year prioritising these painful issues. i also urged the ministers of justice last week to look at the structural funds: at where they are invested and whether they reflect current needs, because we made a horrible mistake with the structural funds in the last programming period. the funds did not reflect the financial crisis at all – it was as if nothing was happening. we should not now repeat the fatal mistake of failing to ensure that the use of eu money reflects our current and very urgent needs. sorry for taking too long. i count on your support and i am looking forward to deepening our cooperation in tackling these issues.
in writing.– as the world faces new challenges with the growing threat of violent extremism, schools and educators are confronted with expressions and sentiments on a scale that was never anticipated, ranging from personal identity conflicts to complex societal issues. incidents of unprecedented mass arrivals of migrants lead to an increase in anti-semitism, islamophobia, and hate speech. schools are increasingly seen as being on the front-lines to prevent different forms of hatred and different forms of extremism. educators are playing an important role in promoting mutual respect and understanding at schools and it is essential that teachers are able to identify children who may be vulnerable to radicalisation. integrated quality education can play a critical role in helping young people distance themselves from extremism and resist the pull factors that may drive them to recruitment. these factors can be contrasted by education through awareness-raising, generating respect for others, and creating and maintaining cultures of peace and dialogue. the eu needs to continue to support civil projects and networks favouring tolerance and intercultural understanding, fostering inclusive education, mutual understanding and intercultural dialogue. erasmus programmes should promote inclusion in education, training, youth and sport, and prevent marginalisation and the radicalisation of young people.
in writing.– hate speech thrives on fear and anxiety among different sectors of our population. they feel that they are inadequately protected against changing circumstances in their daily lives and must bear alone the brunt of economic slowdown or social dislocations. to contain and eradicate hate speech, anti-semitism and islamophobia, we must tackle the conditions that help them to spread. this is more difficult in times of economic stagnation or recession but it must be done. problems multiply when massive immigration flows raise the perception that european lifestyles will be submerged under alien cultures and that scarce jobs will be appropriated by newcomers. such anxiety and fears should be addressed. they should be seen as grounded in concrete concerns, not in innate prejudices. the extremists who fan hate and xenophobia have understood this. they play on such concerns to drive people towards irrational and violent action. those who combat extremism and hate-mongering, should equally face up to people’s concerns. they should put upfront strategies and plans based on consistent efforts to remove the causes of fear and anxiety. simply saying ‘wir schaffen das’, though encouraging, is not enough. much more needs to be done.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve and accelerate the processes of prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist activities. international cooperation and exchange of information between different agencies and countries is crucial in fighting terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the date of effect of decision 2008/633/jha. it allows relevant member state authorities and europol access to visa information systems (vis) to prevent, detect, and deter terrorist or serious criminal offences. i have voted in favour of it as a result.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the european parliament’s position on a draft council implementing decision which determines the date (1 september 2013) from which designated authorities and europol have access to the visa information system (vis). this technical report in itself is uncontroversial, as the implementing decision merely confirms legally the date from which the member states’ designated authorities and europol have access to the vis under certain conditions, that access having already been established in the vis regulation. therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it aims to ensure that the competent and relevant authorities designated by member states and europol have access rights to the visa information system. this system connects the central european system to national systems. this interconnectivity enables border guards to identify people in schengen territory with either fraudulent or no documents.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on access for consultation of the visa information system by member states and europol because it is essential for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it makes no changes to the agreed expenditure for the year 2015, but clarifies the structure of the support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the report tabling the draft amending budget no 6/2015 details the contributions of traditional own resources (tor), vat and gni to the european union’s budget. this report is a technical adjustment to modify and better distribute such contributions collected from established measures and does not have an impact on the expenditure of the 2015 budget. i thus voted in favour of this report
in writing. ‒ this amendment to the eu budget mostly concerns a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the budget, which is soundly based on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed distribution among member states. there is no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget. therefore i voted in favour of this report, which was also supported by the majority of the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it concerns an adjustment to the revenue side of the european union’s budget which was soundly based on statistical developments that are in sync with the agreed distribution between member states and has no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget no 6/2015 on own resources, union trust funds for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications, which mostly concerns a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu budget which is soundly based on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed distribution between member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ sufficient funds need to be provided to the relevant member states in order to deal effectively with the migration crisis that europe is currently facing. i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the need to redeploy and mobilise enough funds to address this emergency situation currently facing the eu.
in writing. ‒ the flexibility instrument is being mobilised in order to finance measures in connection with managing the refugee crisis, and was proposed together with the draft amending budget, which i also voted for in this plenary session. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument partially covers the amount requested in the amending budget (eur 66.1 million out of eur 401.3 million). as this immediate injection helps eu member states tackling the crisis, while equipping our agencies better, i have supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which supports the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument as it is a positive step towards solidarity between member steps in tackling the migration crisis. the resolution also highlights the need for the european union budget to be more flexible to adequately handle the various unforeseen challenges that arise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration because it is urgent and very important to provide financial support for measures for managing the refugee crisis. the mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations beyond the annual ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) under the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. the payment appropriations corresponding to the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument are eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need to increase spending on assistance to the countries of transit which are currently experiencing an influx of refugees. funds should be provided under the asylum, integration and migration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) in accordance with their fundamental purpose. i also welcome the strengthening of agencies like frontex, easo and europol which are crucial to the effective management of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ as more and more asylum seekers enter the european union, efficient action becomes imperative and i support this report because of its approach. the budget allocation to come from this report will help implement the pledges outlined by the european council on 23 september, putting the european union on right track towards managing the crisis. the pledges to gain monetary assistance include the european neighbourhood instrument, various european trust funds established after the syrian crisis (madad fund), and frontline institutions such as identification and registration institutions that are in desperate need of more personnel to make sure the process runs with efficiency. this document amending the budget will provide agencies, including the world food programme, with funds to directly bring aid to the refugees.
in writing. ‒ this budget amendment aims to reinforce the eu’s resources to deal with the current refugee and migration crisis, allowing for swift implementation on the ground. it is proposed to dedicate an extra eur 401.3 million to addressing the crisis. this will be distributed as emergency assistance to the most affected eu member states, to increase the staffing by 120 posts in the three relevant eu frontline agencies (frontex, the european external action service and europol) and to help tackle the syrian refugee crisis in eu neighbourhood countries. while the urgency of the cause is understood, the report also mentions that there is political consensus among the main political groups on the need to find a long-term response to the migration and refugee crisis. as i agree with both parts – the urgent need for financial help and the importance of better planning to address the crisis – i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ due to the urgency of the situation and the need to reinforce the emergency assistance to the member states affected by the migration crisis, there was cross-party support for this resolution. i therefore supported the measures it proposed and also hope that the member states continue to express solidarity in not only financial terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015 because it is important to reinforce the eu’s resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis allowing swift implementation on the ground. it addresses in part the needs mentioned in the ʽcommunication on managing the refugee crisisʼ of 23 september 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request because the relevant authorities should be able to investigate the very serious accusations faced by mr kovács in order for the situation to be cleared and resolved.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács, member of the european parliament, since the request was made in order that investigations can be carried out, on the basis of reasonable suspicions, to see whether a charge will lie against him with regard to the offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union under section 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. according to that section, any person who conducts intelligence activities for a non-european union third country against the european parliament, the european commission or the council of the european union shall be punishable in accordance with section 261, paragraph 1 of which provides that any person who conducts intelligence activities for a foreign power or foreign organisation against hungary is guilty of a felony punishable by a term of imprisonment of between two and eight years. that is why i have voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of this report because i believe that iliyana tsanova has the experience and the right credentials for the post of deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ i support the nomination of the deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments because i believe that iliyana tsanova is a good candidate for this position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that wilhelm molterer is the right candidate for the post of managing director of the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ i supported this nomination for the managing director of the european fund for strategic investments because i believe that wilhelm molterer is a good candidate for this position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the international community should set common goals to combat climate change. the resolution sets out ambitious goals and contains comprehensive solutions and guidelines to help us reach an agreement at the paris conference. it aims to underscore the eu’s ambitious and central role at the conference and to push for progress towards an international agreement.
in writing. ‒ climate change is a global problem with grave implications, both on the environment and on the economy. its worst impact is being felt by the most vulnerable and poorer countries, although technological advances could help, and we have the strength and power to change things. so, climate change calls for an urgent, responsible and global response, based on solidarity among the international community. in this sense, the eu is the key player fighting for a really ambitious and legally binding global agreement, therefore, i believe that the eu must speak out loud and clear to ensure a successful conference in paris. the paris conference must be a meeting at which real decisions are taken to make sure that the world gets back on track to keep the average global temperature below 2 degrees. that is why i gave my strong support for this ambitious report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it explores the many ways that the union can take the lead in the fight against climate change. the resolution highlights the importance of creating a truly circular economy as a means of not only reducing waste but also of opening up new avenues for research and development and also for employment in the green economy.
in writing. ‒ climate change is one of the most serious challenges of our time both for the environment and the economy. climate change is making climate disasters more frequent and intense. it is making the land and water more scarce and difficult to access and its impact increases the risk of hunger in many parts of the world. therefore, with a few reservations i supported parliament’s non-legislative recommendations towards a new international climate agreement in paris. the twenty-first session of the conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol (unfccc cop21) will be organised from 30 november to 11 december 2015 in paris, france and i believe that eu and member states need to be ambitious so that the paris conference will be the meeting at which real decisions will be taken to make sure that the world gets back on track to keep the average global temperature below 2° c.
mr president, the european citizens' initiative is the first tool to empower the citizen to take an active role in shaping european union policy. the citizen is thus given the opportunity to be on the same level as the european parliament, the commission and the european council, institutions which normally seem very remote to our citizens. this tool is fundamental to providing european citizens with the opportunity to directly shape europe's political future. we see it as a direct appeal from the people to the european union, which once again connects europe with its citizens. at least that's the point. but the reality, unfortunately, is somewhat different. a substantial number of initiatives have been rejected or, worse, have had to face legal and bureaucratic obstacles where people are being discouraged from using this tool and thus discouraged from european policy. it should not be. we need to make the citizens' initiative process as citizen-friendly as possible and ensure that it reaches its full potential - that of active and inclusive participation of citizens.
mr president, although there are many citizens who are sceptical about the 'europe' project, it is important to show the successes of this project. the outcome of the telecom single market package can be considered as one of the achievements of the european union that will surely have a positive impact on the lives of our citizens. this is the end of the european parliament's long battle, a battle that began many years ago. this is the end of roaming charges and the beginning of net neutrality rules that will strengthen consumer rights. as part of the negotiations for the s&d group of the imco committee, i insisted on having a fixed date for the end of roaming charges and i am satisfied that we finally have the date of june 2017. from the consumer's perspective, the agreement is also an important step forward. the imco committee succeeded in including a number of important provisions on strengthening contractual information and transparency, monitoring of consumption and traffic management measures. it provides a tool for comparing services, more information for remedies and a procedure to address consumer complaints. the commission is not satisfied with the net neutrality agreement, but at least for the first time there will be european rules applying to all member states for the benefit of citizens.
mr president, today is an important day for consumers across europe. today we will take a decision to finally remove mobile roaming charges across the european union once and for all, with effect from 2017. we are taking the final step in a legislative process, which frankly has already been too long and should not have been. the abolition of roaming charges is another concrete example of the benefits of an economic union with stronger links. with our decision today, we will remove outdated business practices, and our citizens will see the real benefits of a digital european market at low prices. digital services cannot stop at borders. the concept of europe is about removing barriers and i am very proud that another barrier will be removed today. this is not just about roaming but about the need to guarantee full accessibility of the internet and the digital service. i thank my colleague pilar de castillo and the other meps involved as well as the commissioner and the council for all their hard work on this dossier.
mr president, commissioner, the balkan summit has shown most clearly the tension that exists in the european union, when this should be the moment when the european union is united and speaks with one voice. the 'valletta summit' in a few days' time is a golden opportunity for the european union to open a constructive discussion with the african union that can lead to concrete results. migration flows are a result of wars, instability, poverty, unemployment and human rights violations still rampant in certain african and arab countries. the european union must make sure that the aid it gives will make a difference. we must be firm in asking the leaders of these countries to see to it that they put their own people first and foremost. the european union needs to speak with one strong voice at this time if we are to address the situation seriously and in a way that makes a difference.
mr president, migration is the symptom and not the cause, and unless we tackle the root cause this problem will continue and increase. economic, social and political instability, wars, human rights violations and terrorist attacks are just some of the reasons for the symptoms. member states, the african union, the united nations and others will have a unique opportunity at the valletta summit to collaborate to find a genuine international solution to the migration crisis, which can only happen if attention is kept to the root cause of migration. i therefore urge the member states to use the eu african summit in valletta, in malta, as a platform to develop a strategy to respond to the human, social and political challenges that unfortunately are forcing people to flee their homes and causing an exodus from africa to europe. there is no one size fits all solution. but i urge participants to focus on how to give these people a future in their own country so that they do not have to leave and risk their lives to seek a dignified future in their own country. a great challenge and a long-term strategy, true, but if we do not start today before tomorrow, this problem will stay with us forever and will grow.
in writing.– i find it difficult to be optimistic about the prospects of negotiations on euro—african cooperation regarding migrant movements and related socio—economic give—and—take. since the heyday of neo—colonialism in africa, things have not improved much. through the imf and other bodies, the west has imposed its neo—liberal model of development on most african countries. privatisation, the removal of protectionism, and tailor—made forms of project tied aid from supposedly liberalised economies but failed to trigger sufficient growth. they confirmed the pattern of extractive industries and agricultural commodity production where value added was produced by among others, european and chinese mncs outside africa. urbanisation accelerated, farm communities dwindled and became poorer, jobs failed to materialise in townships. in this neoliberal context, unsurprisingly corruption and public mismanagement did not abate; they flourished. for hundreds of thousands of africans, immigration became the only hope. strictly speaking, in a neo—liberal, globalised context, free movement of labour cannot be excised from a doctrine which preaches the virtues of free movement of goods and services worldwide. conceptually and politically, europe is in a weak position to demand a transparent give—and—take from african countries over the mass emigration of their citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it rightly points out the need to improve the existing legislation in line with constantly changing trends in the agricultural sector and new emerging technologies. the directive needs be updated to allow for greater accuracy.
in writing. ‒ acts which were adopted over the last decades have exhausted all their effects, but remain technically in force. in the interest of legal certainty, the commission suggested that the above mentioned acts be repealed by the council and this parliament. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this regulation, which is repealing two obsolete acts that had exhausted all their effects, because their content has been taken up by successive acts in the first case and because of their temporary character in the second case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as legal acts adopted in the last decades may no longer be relevant, as they were replaced by subsequent acts, or due to their temporary character. it is essential that obsolete acts are repealed to condense and update european union law in order to improve transparency and certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation which repeals two obsolete acts that had exhausted all their effects, but remain technically in force. they have become obsolete because their content has been taken up by successive acts for the first one or because of their temporary character for the second.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because changes to the already existing agreement are justified, as improvements are needed in order to be able to deal with the constant changes concerning the exchange of information at international level. the improvements will allow for a more efficient action against tax avoidance and tax evasion by ensuring full tax transparency and greater cross-border cooperation between different national tax administrations.
in writing. ‒ this proposal asks for parliament’s approval of a new act that updates regulations regarding the exchange of financial information between swiss and eu officials. the report stresses the importance of taking effective action against fraud and tax avoidance and in particular tax evasion and tax avoidance by natural and legal persons based in the european union with the involvement of financial institutions based in third countries, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which aims at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the eu and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. this agreement represents an important step in addressing situations where taxpayers seek to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution on the agreement between the eu and switzerland as it is another step forward in combating tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement means that as of 2018 the european union and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents to clamp down on tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which aims at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. switzerland is a key player and more transparency is needed.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to repeal the directive as the information needs to be updated in line with the new administrative cooperation directive. this is necessary to avoid dual reporting and loopholes between national tax systems and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i consented to repeal the savings directive, which was designed to collect data on the savings of non-residential individuals. however, it is extremely important that the commission reports on the results of the repeal, with reference to any potential loopholes that may arise. it is imperative that the commission acts to ensure that such loopholes are closed off completely.
in writing. ‒ this resolution seeks to repeal the council directive on taxing savings income, as the amending directive on administrative cooperation is due to come into effect in 2016. therefore i chose to support the repeal of the savings directive to avoid any loopholes and double reporting that may arise if both directives are in effect.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the repeal of the 2003 eu savings tax directive (eustd1), but on the condition that the commission will report on the results of the repeal, with reference to any potential loopholes that may arise. the commission needs to act, if necessary by means of legislative proposals, in order to ensure that such loopholes are closed.
in writing. ‒ sweden has managed to implement the relevant data protection provisions and should be included in the exchange of fingerprint data in order to combat international crime and terrorism more effectively. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ one aim of the european union is to provide its citizens with high levels of freedom as well as security and justice for crimes. to do so, member states must be interconnected, achieved through the creation of a national database for cross—border checks of people from dna and dactyloscopic data (fingerprinting). this report states that the member state of sweden has meet the directive’s criteria established for implementation of an automatic data exchange. i voted for this report that will allow the member state of sweden to receive and supply such above discussed data to combat terrorism and other such crimes.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the council draft. this is a technical consultation procedure on the implementation of the prüm decision on exchanging fingerprint data by sweden. sweden fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which allows sweden to both provide and receive dactyloscopic data for use in criminal investigations as sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden, which is a purely technical consultation procedure on the implementation of the so—called prüm decision on exchanging fingerprint data by sweden.
in writing. ‒ given the changes in the data protection provisions that have been introduced recently in belgium, the national authorities should be allowed the exchange of dactyloscopic data with the relevant international authorities. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ one aim of the european union is to provide its citizens with high levels of freedom as well as security and justice for crimes. to do so member states must be interconnected, achieved through the creation of a national database for cross-border checks on people from dna and dactyloscopic data (fingerprinting). this report states that the member state of belgium has meet the directive’s criteria established for implementation of automatic data exchange. i voted for this report that will allow the member state of belgium to receive and supply such above discussed data to fight terrorism and other such crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council draft. this is a technical consultation procedure on the implementation of the prüm decision on exchanging fingerprints data by belgium. belgium had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which allows belgium to both provide and receive dactyloscopic data for use in criminal investigations, as belgium has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium, which is a purely technical consultation procedure on the implementation of the so-called prüm decision on exchanging fingerprint data by belgium.
in writing. ‒ as poland has successfully incorporated the general provisions on data protection into its national law, its authorities should be permitted to exchange dactyloscopic data internationally in order to combat terrorism and cross-border crime more successfully. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ one aim of the european union is to provide its citizens with high levels of freedom as well as security and justice for crimes. to do this, member states must be interconnected, [and this may be] achieved through the creation of a national database for cross-border checks of people from dna and dactyloscopic data (fingerprinting). this report states that the member state of poland has met the directive’s criteria established for implementation of an automatic data exchange. i have voted for this report that will allow the member state of poland to receive and supply such above discussed data to fight against terrorism and other such crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council draft. this is a technical consultation procedure on the implementation of the prum decision on exchanging fingerprints data by poland. poland had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which allows poland to both provide and receive dactyloscopic data for use in criminal investigations, as poland has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland, which is a purely technical consultation procedure on the implementation of the so-called prüm decision on exchanging fingerprint data by poland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the council position in this report as i believe that this proposal does not sufficiently cover the concerns of the whole spectrum of the tourist industry and might go against the actual competitiveness of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ malta, along with other member states, has expressed serious concerns on this proposal during all stages of the discussions of this file. in this regard a common statement was co-signed by belgium, estonia, ireland, malta, the netherlands and slovakia when the vote for a political agreement during the competitiveness council was taken. the aspects of this proposal are at odds with the aims of the digital single market strategy which seeks to overcome barriers to the full utilisation of the internet and digital technologies for the benefit of consumers and businesses alike. the proposal risks stifling innovation and hindering the competitiveness of our tourism sector, ultimately creating higher prices and less choice for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the council position because i have serious concerns on the proposal as it stands. while i acknowledge that the old package travel directive is in need of revision due to enormous changes in the travel market, and while i support the improvement of consumer protection and insolvency protection i could not support this report due to the inclusion of practices that can harm the maltese touristic industry. a regulation needs to be smart and self-explanatory and must be enforceable, however i have doubts whether this is the case with this proposal. the main concern is that the new directive might lead to burden and bureaucracy for smes in malta, advantage third countries, and create a high degree of legal uncertainty especially due to the broad and ambitious definitions on what constitutes a package. therefore also after reviewing the position of the main interested parties i voted against this directive.
in writing. ‒ i support the improvement of consumer protection in the field of dynamic packages and the revision of the package travel directive, but in my opinion the final text of the directive voted on 27 october would lead to extra burden and bureaucracy for smes in malta and create a high degree of legal uncertainty, especially due to the broad and ambitious definitions on what constitutes a package instead of improving the situation for consumers and smes. i therefore voted against the results of the second reading agreement of the revision of the package travel directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it outlines provisions such as the abolition of the roaming charges, greater protection of consumer rights and higher quality digital services which bring us closer to full implementation of the digital single market strategy.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is one of the first steps towards the idea of a digital single market within the union. the treatment of traffic which should be equal and non-discriminatory in the provision of internet access service and also in the safeguarding of related end-users’ rights. in reality the end users shall have the right to access and distribute information and content; the providers of internet access service should treat all traffic equally without discrimination; and traffic should not be based on commercial considerations but rather on the technical quality of the service. however, at the same time, the text agreed has also explicitly allowed the telecom operators and content providers to agree on dedicated ‘quality of service’ levels to provide the so-called ‘necessary services’. this provision was very important for the final agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted to ensure that roaming for calls, sms and data within the eu will be abolished by 15 june 2017. with this legislation, for the first time ever, the net neutrality principle will be enshrined in all the 28 national legal systems and will be obliging internet service providers across europe to treat all internet traffic equally without discrimination, restriction or interference, irrespective of the sender and the receiver, the content, the application or services used. the proposal guarantees also that blocking, throttling, degradation or discrimination of online content, applications and services by internet service providers will be prohibited. this is the final stage to ending eu roaming charges and to guaranteeing net neutrality by ensuring a strong open internet with non-discriminatory traffic, transparency and clear end—user rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it proposes to eliminate all roaming charges by june 2017 which is a key point for european consumers and an important step towards achieving a true single digital market.
in writing. ‒ the result of telecoms single market package is one of the most impactful achievements of the eu in improving the life of its citizens. this is the end of a very long battle for the european parliament that started many years ago. this is the end of roaming charges and the beginning of eu-wide rules on net neutrality whilst strengthening consumer rights in the telecoms single market. i voted in favour of banning roaming charges in europe as from 15 june 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i welcome the commission’s proposal to extend restrictions on certain goods that could be used to torture or punish inhumanely. sale of such goods should be monitored by relevant authorities in order to prevent any illegal practices.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is meant to amend the anti-torture goods regulation of previous that the parliament implemented to stem the trade of certain goods that have no other practical use except for capital punishment, torture or other inhuman cruel acts. it is important to control the export of goods which are used for the death penalty and torture. however, the requests arising from some eu companies for not hindering legitimate trade are also well—founded. a careful balance has to be found between legitimate interests of companies and possible use of certain products for capital punishment.
in writing. ‒ the revision of this regulation aims to contribute to the elimination of the death penalty worldwide and prevent torture through eu-wide controls on exports of torture goods and drugs used for lethal injection. this revision includes adding export licencing controls for lethal drugs and prohibiting trade in new items which have become regularly used for torture by certain regimes such as spiked batons, electric shock sleeves and cuffs, for example. i am totally against capital punishment and as these restrictions might help in deterring such executions i gave it my full support in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report to push forward the negotiations with the council in order to reach a first reading agreement and once again show the union’s commitment to a moratorium and eventual end to the death penalty internationally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of revision of the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment. i fully support the main elements of the legislative revision aimed at contributing to the elimination of the death penalty worldwide and prevention of torture through eu-wide controls on exports of torture goods and drugs used for lethal injection. i am in favour of adding export licencing controls for lethal drugs and prohibiting trade in new items which have become regularly used for torture by certain regimes such as spiked batons, electric shock sleeves and cuffs for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i support the exchange of information between different tax administrations in order to ensure transparency and eliminate tax avoidance. greater cross-border cooperation will help us tackle such problems more efficiently and with better results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal and the legislative resolution to have automatic exchange of information. transparency on taxation matters is important. i voted against two amendments which call for public disclosure of advance rulings and advance pricing arrangements in an online public central directory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the automatic exchange of information will increase the level of transparency and combat cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition.
in writing. ‒ after the luxleaks scandal, it was obvious that lack of transparency on tax rulings is being exploited by certain companies in order to artificially reduce their tax contribution in member states where they operate. exchange of information of cross-border tax rulings is very limited, not mandatory and does not live up to the needs today to gather tools to create a more transparent and responsible tax regime in europe. therefore, with some small reservations and vote against certain amendments, i voted in favour of the mandatory automatic exchange of information on types of cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements. in my opinion this will increase transparency and fight against aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i was concerned with the budgetary and financial management as well as the internal audit which were not carried out according to the expected standard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to artemis because based on a report provided to cont which showed that improvements have been made including in the ex—post audits and audit strategies, the progress in managing the assurances provided by national funding authorities as well as on development of new methodology for residual error rate estimation. i fully support such accountability measures and i feel confident in giving my support to this discharge now that the requested changes have taken place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and the rapporteur’s conclusions to support the discharge, as progress has been made in implementing the action plan aimed at remedying the deficiencies identified by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge for 2013 to the artemis joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. the european institute of innovation and technology has managed successfully to present its accounts clearly as well as improve many of its procedures relating to monitoring and planning of budget implementation procedures.
in writing. ‒ the eit has a vital importance in terms of delivering the goals of eu’s policies to promote technology and innovation. eit management has shown the clear improvement in their shortcomings including the inclusion of complementary ex-ante verifications for grant expenditure and also improvements in the vacancy management. considering that the required amendments were made and the identified shortcomings were addressed i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute for innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the granting of a discharge as the rapporteur and committee on budgetary control concluded that enough progress has been made by the european institute of innovation and technology to address parliament’s concerns regarding audit issues and material procurement errors.
in writing. ‒ the eit has a vital importance in terms of delivering the goals of eu’s policies to promote technology and innovation. eit management has shown a clear improvement in their shortcomings. therefore, i voted in favour of granting discharge for 2013 to european institute of innovation and technology (eit).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval for the closure of eniac’s accounts. their financial report was presented in a clear manner. additionally, amongst others the joint undertaking managed to fulfil the requirements regarding public and private contributions as outlined in its statute.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to eniac following the improvements that eniac made including improvements in the ex post audits and audit strategies, the progress in managing the assurances provided by the national funding authorities as well as the development of new methodology for residual error rate estimation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to grant the discharge as the rapporteur highlights the progress that eniac and artemis joint undertakings have made in tackling the audit strategies and other concerns raised by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i followed the committee’s decision and voted in favour of granting discharge for 2013 to eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the council failed to reply to the questions and requests regarding the discharge exercise. the level of transparency was not satisfying and the council failed to provide sufficient explanations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against granting discharge to the council due to lack of transparency in the finances and continued refusal to provide information in response to the parliament's questions. discharge was already refused for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. it is regretful that the council did not provide any explanation on the increasing underspending and carry—overs of commitments in its 2013 budget when all institutions should cooperate to ensure the smooth functioning of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur’s opinion to refuse the granting of the discharge as the council has yet to address questions posed by the parliament in the current and the previous discharge exercises.
in writing. ‒ i voted to refuse discharge again to the council due to lack of transparency in the finances and continued refusal to provide information in response to the committee’s questions in the way in which other institutions and bodies regularly do. discharge was already refused for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it provides lessons learned on the ebola crisis and ways on how to improve our help to developing counties in order to strengthen their healthcare systems. the latest epidemic also showed us how little we know about the virus and that we need to focus more on research in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with ebola and what europe needs to do in the post-ebola period. the post-ebola stage will have been reached once there have been no more new cases for 42 days. once this happens, the eu’s response will need to be twofold: first, development aid will need to include investment in health, and second, it will be vital for the three countries which were mostly affected to receive aid with a view to kick-starting their economies. i believe that all those involved must demonstrate the vision they need to enable them to assume their responsibilities in the period that follows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is crucial that we examine the lessons learnt. the eu is pushing for quicker mobilisation of health workers and aid, through a who reserve fund. the resolution also suggests that the focus should change to development and economic assistance to repair damage caused by the crisis once the situation stabilises.
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of the year, the ebola virus has claimed thousands of lives in liberia, sierra leone and guinea, nigeria and senegal. although the european commission has strengthened its immediate support to tackle the crisis, local and international efforts turned out to be inadequate in the containment of this deadly disease for which there is no vaccine. even though ebola faded from the news headlines a long while ago, we should not stop fighting this deadly disease. all those involved must demonstrate the vision they need to enable them to assume their responsibilities in the period that follows. the ebola crisis has highlighted the structural problems that are still to be found in a number of countries. therefore, i voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution to provide recommendations for europe’s response on the development of basic social services, giving priority to healthcare, so that we can avoid future crises like this one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as i am concerned about the recent breach of eu market regulations by european companies discovered by the relevant american authorities. i believe that we need to reassess our control measures, standards and goals when it comes to the automotive industry and make them more realistic.
in writing. ‒ the resolution stresses the need of real driving emissions test to ensure that new cars on eu roads finally meet the euro 6 limits agreed almost 10 years ago. it also mentions the need to establish an independent eu wide type approval authority that would oversee testing and be truly independent. finally it also stresses that workers should not pay for the mistakes of the executives and every precautionary measure should be taken to guarantee that no jobs will be lost while the scandal should be seen as an opportunity for the european car industry to invest into more targeted r&d. these are all points which i have brought up in my various recent interventions in the role of s&d spokesperson on the issues of vehicle emissions, hence i have supported this resolution with my vote.
in writing. ‒ this cross-party resolution calls on the commission to take the recent news regarding automotive manufacturers into account when formulating new policies in the field of sustainable transport. it also stresses the need to ensure that vehicle emissions tests are accurate and that the european automotive industry remains at the forefront of innovation. i therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ whilst the volkswagen emissions-rigging scandal continues to grow leaving everyone perplexed and asking themselves what went wrong, drawing comparisons between the us and eu test systems and their differences and failings, we need to fully understand that what is at stake here is citizens’ health and what is important is to win back consumer trust and confidence in the standards and type-approval mechanism used in europe. cars in europe must be as clean and efficient on the road as they are in the laboratory. the volkswagen scandal has opened our eyes to the massive loopholes and existing abuses in the current system, therefore i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector, calling on car makers and on the european commission and member states to provide answers and take quick action to restore trust and repair consumer detriment and to ensure that consumers do not suffer from misleading commercial statements.
an efficient justice system is always needed. i believe that we should invest more and more in the european judicial system because citizens deserve the best system, one that is efficient and effective. what is the point of giving european citizens a right of access to the courts, then waiting for years to get a decision from that court? the justice that citizens deserve at european level is not one that wears them down in the waiting, but one that addresses their legal difficulties as quickly as possible through courts armed with just judges, and who know the law and have the facilities to administer justice. that is what i expect of the european courts, as i expect of the national judicial system. so yes, there is a need to invest more in the european court of justice which is always facing an increase in the number of cases brought before it and not always finding the facility to deal with them efficiently. but it also means that the court in which we are investing, must be vigilant about how it uses its resources, must be accountable, and must ensure that justice is delivered efficiently. the proposal to increase the number of judges in the european court deserves approval because it invests in efficient justice for european citizens, and at the same time puts an accounting measure on the court.
in fact, before we came to this debate many of us analysed the air quality in our streets, and the results were shocking but certainly not surprising. the air around us is not clean, and the cars on our roads contribute greatly to this. we certainly cannot choose where we breathe, but we can do our best to limit the damage done. the technology to make cars cleaner exists and it costs a few hundred euros, about three hundred euros to be precise. this is certainly a low price compared with the almost nine hundred billion euros spent on health care and lost productivity across the european union. and that's in addition to the fact that we need tests that actually calculate how much cars pollute our roads. citizens deserve and have a right to clean air, no matter where they are, in what country and in what city they live. but to make this difference in the lives of our citizens, we need to be ambitious and act right now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2016. it covers the administrative budgets of the eu institutions including the european parliament (ep) but excluding the european commission. i supported parliament’s approach as, while it protects the interests of parliament and the commission as functional bodies, it also safeguards employees while facilitating essential bodies like eeas especially in the current international political situation.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support parliament’s efforts to use the 2016 general budget to increase levels of youth employment across the union, enhance the eu’s competitiveness and to keep the necessary funds available to tackle the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general budget of the european union for 2016 – all sections. i supported the reinforcement of the budgetary lines of some political key priorities for growth, competitiveness and employment, in particular compensations for the cuts on the two important programmes horizon 2020 and connecting europe facility and the increase in the youth employment initiative. i have also voted in favour of increase for the school fruit scheme and the school milk. last but not least i voted against the subsidies for the breeding of bulls used for bullfighting.
in writing. ‒ regarding both internal and external issues that the eu is facing, i agree with the rapporteur that the union needs a rise in its budget in order to tackle them. the report aims to alleviate the migration and refugee situation and also improve competitiveness through employment, entrepreneurship and innovation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general budget of the european union for 2016. it covers the administrative budgets of the eu institutions including the european parliament (ep) but excluding the european commission. i voted in favour of a roadmap to a single seat. i agree with the s&d’s work to ensure transparency of the general expenditure allowance. i abstained on the greens’ amendment 26 since whilst i agree with further transparency and accountability the amendment was loaded with other issues which required further clarification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it proposes additional increases in the 2016 budget for the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) which is essential if the union is to handle the crisis in a way fitting to our standards and values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which is a political document explaining parliament’s position on the general budget of the european union for 2016 – all sections. the resolution needs to be consistent with the vote on the figures. therefore, as in the budgetary lines, i supported the reinforcement of some political key priorities for growth, competitiveness and employment, in particular compensation for the cuts in the two important programmes horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, and the increase in the youth employment initiative. i also voted against subsidies for the breeding of bulls for bullfighting. last but not least, i voted in favour of more transparency for the general expenditure allowance but taking into account that this should happen without creating an extra administrative or financial burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for an increase in the number of judges in the european court of justice to 56, since there is an increase in the number of cases before the court. i also support the idea of gender parity rules and the enforcement of a review clause after five years of the provisions’ entry in force, in order to focus on the efficiency of the general court in implementing the increase in the number of the judges and the establishment of specialised chambers.
in writing. ‒ in this report we voted in favour of adding 28 judges to the court of justice of the european union, phased in over the coming years. a particular clause for gender balance was included. i believe that we need to ensure the functioning of the european judiciary as not doing so comes at a higher price for citizens. however, we also insisted on overcoming discrimination: it is also about time that both genders will be equally represented in european courts.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support the increase in the number of judges at the general court from 21 to 56 by 2019 as it will decrease the backlog of cases. if the eu is to retain its credentials as a fair and operational single market we need to ensure that the body mandated to deal with competition, state aid and trademark cases brought by companies can function correctly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the court of justice of the european union: number of judges at the general court, because in my opinion europe needs to ensure the proper functioning of the european judicial system. a dysfunctional judiciary would not be in interests of european citizens. therefore, i voted in favour of this agreement but only on condition that the amendments relating to gender parity and the review clause feature in the final text of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) should be implemented before any measures are adopted, and the gfcm aims to provide protection to species covered by the habitats directive while also improving development in the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting waters.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) in its annual sessions in 2011 and 2012. i voted in favour of the inclusion of measures that deal with the sustainable exploitation of red coral and for the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, for the protection of sharks and rays amongst others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean recommendations offer increased levels of regulatory protection without burdening the fishing industries of the countries involved – many of the measures already being in place at national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 to incorporate conservation and control measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). measures include provisions for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, and the extension of some technical measures to the black sea, as well as management measures for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the commission’s proposal should be rejected because it is unclear in terms of the requirements imposed on the member states that wish to lawfully restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i am also concerned that it would most likely have a negative impact on the internal market for food and feed.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the commission proposal. however, considering the commission’s proposal in stating that it would still go on to negotiate the proposal with the council, i voted in favour of a new proposal which has to be submitted by the commission and also in favour of asking the commission not to authorise the placing on the market of any new product containing, consisting of, or produced from gmos and not to renew old ones until the new proposal is agreed upon.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution rejecting the commission’s proposal regarding an ‘opt-out mechanism’ in respect of the use of genetically modified food and feed, as it would ultimately threaten the coherence of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i expressed strong concerns with regard to the commission approach on an opt-out option for the use of genetically modified food and feed. in my opinion the practical implementation of such a process and its administrative burden are still not clear due to the non-existence of an impact assessment, the incompatibility of member state opt-out measures with internal market and wto rules, the failure to ensure legal certainty and the question of the proposal’s ‘implementability’ in general. last but not least, this option could be misleading for both the consumer and the relevant industries. therefore, i supported the rapporteur’s approach in rejecting the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that detailed study of the so-called novel foods and subsequent legislation are vital to ensure the highest quality of products on the european market. the current novel foods regulation therefore needs to be updated in line with the latest developments and information at hand. also, the rapporteur rightly points out the need to include more provisions on different types of novel foods in order to avoid a legal vacuum.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the commission proposal and the legislative resolution on novel foods because given the regulation is outdated and the rules on novel foods have to be adjusted to the technological and scientific progress, there are clearly missing elements which are of extreme importance.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it will promote innovation in the food industry and in the realm of novel foods in particular. the new regulation seeks to update the current definitions and requirements for placing novel foods on the market. these food items would also have to be evaluated and authorised via a fully harmonised procedure before entering the market and deemed safe for consumption.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on the report on novel foods, as i am not fully satisfied with the text of the regulation. in my opinion, the report has been watered down and is outdated. the rules on novel foods have to be adjusted to reflect technological and scientific progress while at the same time taking into consideration the need to ensure food safety, to protect public health and to secure the functioning of the internal market for food, while supporting innovation in the food sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i believe it is necessary to decrease emission levels in order to protect human health, animal welfare and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for this revised national emission ceilings directive replaces the current union regime on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants for so2, nox, nmvocs and ammonia until 2020. this is very timely measure as the air quality in europe is still far from achieving levels that do not result in acceptable risks to humans and the environment. certain pollutants combine to create pm and ground-level ozone, which in turn adversely affect human health, the environment and the climate. air pollutants are emitted from a variety of sources, including transport, electricity production, industry, heating, households, agriculture and waste. i am strongly in favour of ambitious, realistic measures to address dangerous pollutants because we must go for strong, realistic targets in order to achieve real results.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it calls for measures to strengthen the monitoring mechanisms to ensure timely progress in emission reductions, including transparency in drawing up and updating the national air-pollution control programmes. the final vote on the legislative resolution was postponed to another sitting.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned that the european citizens’ initiative is failing to meet the goals it was set to achieve. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the citizens’ initiative is a great step towards the further expansion of civil society in the european union and it should be constantly improved in order to maximise its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the european citizen’s initiative (eci) and on ways how to improve the eci. the eci is a tool that has been of major interest to the european parliament as it gives an opportunity for european citizens to collect signatures and propose an action or law to be taken on by the eu. however, there were only three successful initiatives so far and there is a steady decline in the use of the eci. i strongly believe in a closer relationship between the eu and its citizens, hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it highlights the need to raise awareness of the european citizens’ initiative in order to make it successful. greater efforts are need to make the success criteria more widely known, as so far not a single initiative has led to legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens’ initiative (eci) is the first ever instrument empowering citizens with the right to take a new and active role in eu policymaking. it is crucial in providing european citizens with an opportunity to shape the political future in europe directly. unfortunately the instrument has proven to be dysfunctional and very bureaucratic. therefore, i voted in favour of the report, which offers good recommendations on how the commission urgently needs to modify the eci to make it as citizen-friendly as possible and to ensure it lives up to its full potential. otherwise we risk turning this tool into an obsolete instrument at its very inception.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it supports the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, which i believe is a crucial part of social and economic cohesion strategy for this region. it stresses the importance of transparency and cooperation at regional level, which result in economic and social development. i agree with the recommendations made in the report for exploiting the enormous potential of the region, which would in turn result in endless benefits for the local people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report establishing an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region which as a region faces a set of common challenges including socio-economic disparities between different countries and regions. i voted in favour of amendments that address the infrastructure deficits that exist and also the inadequate interconnection of electricity grids.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the need further to develop transport and energy connections among the participating countries as well as between them and their other neighbours. it is crucial that the network infrastructure gap in the adriatic-ionian area is addressed in order to increase the region’s socioeconomic development. the union’s strategy and the funding allocated to the region should address these issues.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic-ionian region faces a common set of challenges, ranging from difficult political and economic circumstances, due to past historical events, to big socio-economic disparities between different countries and regions. the report in my opinion tries to find solutions to all these challenges and therefore contributes to all four pillars of the strategy (blue growth; connecting europe; environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism).
in writing. ‒ the mid-term review is an important milestone to take stock of the goals that europe 2020 was meant to deliver. the public consultation which took place last year showed that there is scope and a need to improve the delivery of the strategy through enhanced ownership and involvement on the ground. i voted in favour of the report as i believe that the mid-term review will offer a unique opportunity to give the strategy a new energy boost that will help us to reach our objectives.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the progress achieved so far in view of the mid-term review of the strategy foreseen for the end of 2015. the report deals with the effect that the recent economic, social and financial crisis has had on this process. another issue highlighted in this report is the importance of multi-level governance and the existence of an effective mixed top-down/bottom—up approach in member states. this includes – throughout all governance layers – defining, implementing, monitoring and evaluating the strategy application, feedback from ngos and other interested stakeholders. the report calls for a necessity to use tailor-made eu 2020 targets for each region, to better adapt to the reality of a variety of regions with different needs. while i fully support the 2020 targets and strategy i also believe that this reports highlights very realistic issues that we need to address in reaching these goals, hence i supported it in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it highlights the importance of a territorial approach within the cohesion policy based on qualitative analysis. due to regional differences within the union and within member states the effectiveness of the cohesion policy may be asymmetric due to these different regional characteristics. the rapporteur advocates the need for regional, tailor-made objectives which in turn would lead to a greater level of engagement and participation of local and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and review of the europe 2020 strategy, which underlines a need for a strategic, political discussion on the future cohesion policy and highlights the importance of multi-level governance and the existence of an effective mixed top-down/bottom-up approach in the member states. this includes tailor-made eu2020 targets for each region, to better adapt to the reality of a variety of regions with different needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regi committee resolution since it highlighted the practical implications of the reprogramming and suspension of funding as a result of the macroeconomic failings of a national government. i believe that a balance should be kept between the need for effective economic governance and cohesion policy goals and this vote reflected exactly this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the goals of the european structural and investment funds should not be hindered by economic governance mechanisms, especially since the current esi funds should be in line the strategic goals of the europe 2020 strategy. even though i am firmly in favour of a stable macroeconomic environment, macroeconomic conditionality should be applied in the most justified and balanced manner possible. i also support the idea that the parliament should be involved when it comes to ensuring that the provisions on macroeconomic conditionality within the common provisions regulation are applied correctly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance, because in the current programming period cohesion policy is closely linked with the goals of eu 2020 strategy and economic governance mechanisms. any reprogramming, if needed, should be kept as simple and transparent as possible. moreover, regional and local authorities should not be punished, through reprogramming or suspension of funding. a balance should be kept between the need for effective economic governance and cohesion policy goals.
mr president, at the end of the semester cycle one still wonders whether our approach is as effective as the claim originally made for it. true, deficits have been curtailed in a majority of member states and, arguably, national debt levels are going down – but would that not have happened anyway, given normal economic and financial pressures? not so, we are told. our procedures were designed to forestall financial armageddon among member states. in this they have succeeded by ensuring that rule-based methods compatible with free markets apply to all national players. however, these methods have not led to economic growth at the desired level. such growth, as there has been, remains fragile. despite the quantitative easing programme run by the european central bank, its president mario draghi stated again that he is prepared to do anything to keep the system on track. saying that once was necessary; having to say it twice becomes less effective. so perhaps we need to evaluate critically the semester cycle of surveillance. member states must now satisfy rules that in practice impose more constraints than exist on states in the usa under a federal system, which is not the case for the eu. other rules such as those for the banking union, necessary though they are, have also introduced down the line new costs and delays in the circulation and mobilisation of funds. one—size—fits—all criteria for pension issues seem to be proliferating. meanwhile, social considerations which were a backbone of european macroeconomic policies are frequently side-lined. beyond critically evaluating the semester procedures, perhaps we also need to change perspectives. we need to get over the fixation that the priority should remain that of not letting 2008 happen again.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr rosati, for the good work he has done on this report. and i particularly welcome the fact that there are member states that have made progress on employment policy, and that this is one of the four main priorities that the commission identified in this year's cycle. i also appreciate the efforts made by the commission to focus specifically on particular priority topics this semester. however, we must increase the momentum of our efforts to strengthen the process of national ownership of csrs by increasing the involvement of the social and national partners throughout the process, just as the commission has rightly pointed out recently. although there are signs of improvement in the problem of youth unemployment, it is still a very big problem, and we want to see their numbers decrease. it is good to create studies, it is good to talk about this problem, but now let's move on to the facts to see more young people entering the world of work. i agree with jean lambert that the problem of employment is not the only problem facing european citizens, but also a social problem brought on by the economic crisis, and that we must also start to address this more seriously. and so i believe we need member countries to commit themselves seriously to tackling these problems holistically and implementing an effective employment policy that affects both jobseekers and employers.
president of the council. finally, mr president, your question is an illustration of the debate we have just had. i think you have pointed to a very concrete, very specific issue, which affects millions of europeans who expect something concrete from the european semester. the european semester is not an exercise in style, a theoretical exercise. but, in the end, if the european semester is to have any real political significance, it must reach those who have been unemployed for a long time and suffer from all the ills you have described. because, in fact, the 12 million quoted are statistics. but as we often say, behind these statistics are people, families, broken lives, despair, and i think that is what we really need to address. indeed, longterm unemployment is already a kind of failure, because how is it acceptable that someone does not find a job for a year or two? and when you get past the two-year mark, it becomes a sometimes impossible business, a really desperate business. and what does this long-term unemployment produce? it is a kind of vicious circle which, in a way, adds unemployment to unemployment. and the longer the unemployment lasts, the less favourable the prospects of getting a job again. and among these longterm unemployed are often women, often seniors and slightly older people who have lost their jobs and whose qualifications are no longer suitable for the labour market. unfortunately, there are also young people and - it must be said - sometimes the youth guarantee is not enough to reintegrate these people. and if we really talk about crisis, if the economic crisis is over, if the debt crisis is under control, if the financial crisis is behind us, with billions and billions, and the real losers, the real victims of the crisis, are those unemployed, those who have no prospects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the longterm unemployed are not left behind. in the event of an economic recovery - as we are seeing today - they will be the last to be hired. and they even run the risk of not being hired at all. and in these circumstances, it is very likely that they will leave the labour market, that they will no longer be registered, as you said, and that they will join the ranks of the inactive, with all the implied impoverishment that affects them directly, but which, often - i do not need to repeat it, you said - also affects their families, their children, in a way reproducing the same pattern of exclusion. the longterm unemployed must therefore be treated as a priority category. and the policy to be implemented must include reforms of both social and employment policies, but also broader strategic action in the economic and budgetary sphere. a real economic recovery and demand-driven measures are essential to reduce longterm unemployment, because, you know, the best recipe for unemployment in general and especially for longterm unemployment is job creation, and ultimately, what creates jobs is growth, with the creation of businesses, the creation of activity. and so we need a more durable, stronger recovery, because we are facing more and more this kind of structural unemployment, and this, of course, in the countries that have been most affected by the crisis, but even in those countries where, in the end, the level of unemployment remains relatively low. but growth alone is not going to solve this problem, we need a major investment in human capital. this is the most decisive action to enable these people to re-acquire or re-establish the skills they need to re-enter the labour market. it is also important to emphasise a preventive approach. because people become longterm unemployed because they have lost their jobs very often or because they have not been able to find a job, but often because they have lost their jobs. i think that when we talk about flexibility, we tend to forget about security. and when we talk about the longterm unemployed, it is because this security component has not worked. because it should have allowed those people who lost their jobs to eventually be readjusted, to be trained so that they could re-enter the labour market more quickly. so training, retraining, continuing training for those who have jobs are key policies to effectively avoid longterm unemployment. and longterm unemployment, we talk about 18 months, we say that we should start acting when someone has been unemployed for 18 months. and perhaps that is also the criticism i have a little bit about this document which has been presented by the commission: well, no, you should not wait 18 months when someone is unemployed, you must take action as quickly as possible, you must act quickly, as quickly as possible, because, indeed, if we wait 18 months already, we have wasted a lot of time, far too much time. it is in this context that the work on the proposal for a council recommendation on the longterm unemployed is taking place. the luxembourg presidency hopes that the council will reach a political agreement at the epsco council in december. a policy debate on this proposal was already held at the october epsco council. as you have pointed out, we do need to modernise, adapt and strengthen our public employment services, which often resign in the face of the longterm unemployed because they feel that there is not much more to do, so these people are a bit neglected. and it is important to develop an approach, perhaps not exactly the same, but comparable to what we have implemented with the youth guarantee. so we cannot rely solely on more fluid labour markets to reintegrate these jobseekers. we must build them real bridges to employment. the creation of specific jobs that would facilitate their reintegration should be promoted, including public sector jobs. invest in employment rather than in inactivity, because inactivity is synonymous with exclusion, with distress, with precariousness, with poverty. let's also think about families, children, you said that. i am also thinking of the social and solidarity economy, which has a specific role to play in reintegrating the longterm unemployed, because it obeys other rules and can act at this level. and i am referring to the social innovation projects of the commission's easi programme to make better use of the means of reintegrating the longterm unemployed. so i think there are different approaches: job creation, investment in training, investment in retraining, social support. it is also important because, often, the long-term unemployed have no income or very low income, have housing problems, and here the vicious circle takes an extremely dangerous turn.
on behalf of the ppe group. we are aware that those who have been out of work for a long time face many obstacles. as my committee chairman, mr händel, has said, these obstacles can be either lack of skills, lack of education, poverty, psychosocial conditions, social exclusion, lack of training or inefficiency in accessing information or employment services. now i've heard a minister speak here, i almost almost have to sit down because, everything the minister said, i agree with him, but the truth is when we start to see these numbers go down. let's not talk about numbers, let's talk about individuals, we know for example that long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007. so we have a problem, you have workers who are for example not registered, they cannot register, what do we do to make sure that we are there to divide up these workers who are not registering for work and give them individual assistance, no longer with schemes that only affect those who are perhaps a little more fortunate, we have to see how to give quick attention, as the minister said, quickly, not let the one who is waiting long, because otherwise, if we let workers wait long to get the job, what can happen? they lose confidence in themselves to enter the world of work. and this is, i think, the biggest problem facing these people who are unemployed in the european union, and so, yes i urge more coordination, i urge more efficiency on our part, on the part of the commission, on the part of the council, because too much study has been done, too much study is being done, too much analysis, but now let us turn to facts, because these people as long as we are studying, as long as we are analysing are still unemployed and they and their families are suffering, so i expect this time action and not more studies and more words.
nicolas schmit, president of the council. - madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the author of the question and parliament for this extremely stimulating debate. the question of longterm unemployment is one that will have to be integrated and is integrated into the procedures and actions of the european semester. indeed, countries with high levels of unemployment, especially long-term unemployment, need to be encouraged to implement appropriate solutions, actions and policies. it is true that there are people who do not want to work, who cannot work, these are categories that exist; perhaps we should also consider, if work does not pay, adjusting this imbalance between social benefits on the one hand and wages on the other, because it is true that the problem exists. nor should we expect everything from the council, because in fact the real employment policies are first of all at the level of each member state. of course, there will have to be a better alignment of national policies on the one hand and european union action on the other. i believe that is also the meaning of this recommendation proposed by the commission. this is a recommendation to put this issue on the agenda, which concerns us all. but policies also require resources, and it is above all the countries which do not have resources, which are facing budgetary difficulties, which need help in this area. and i think that, as we have done with the youth guarantee, with the implementation of actions targeted at countries with particularly high youth unemployment - which are generally also those with the greatest budgetary problems - we should also consider targeting resources at those countries which have the greatest difficulties in terms of longterm unemployment. i believe that the european social fund should incorporate a real dimension in the fight against longterm unemployment. we all agree that to get a longterm unemployed person to work, jobs must be created and that economic policy is the first concern. if there is no job creation, if there is no growth, if there is no demand, if there is no investment, there will be no jobs, and unemployment will become increasingly large and increasingly structural unemployment. of course, employers must also be held accountable for their actions - and i believe this is also part of their social responsibility - but the authorities may also need to help employers to recruit longterm jobseekers, through aid or specific measures. i do not like to use my own country as an example, but on friday i will be launching a new measure, which was suggested to me by the commission's recommendation, by creating a real reintegration contract for the most vulnerable categories, to try to get these people back into employment and, of course, to give aid to the companies that employ these people. at the same time, i will also make it possible for these companies to provide measures to supervise these people, to provide training, etc. i therefore believe that we must help employers, encourage them, but also call on them to take responsibility for giving the longterm unemployed a chance, because what we are talking about is also an aspect of the european social model, it is social cohesion, because this number of people - 12 million - represents a plague in european societies.
in writing.– long-term unemployment has significant negative social and economic consequences. it can lead to skills depreciation, loss of motivation and higher incidence of health problems. long-term unemployment is one of the most important causes of poverty. long-term unemployed people are often facing reluctance from potential employers and consequently lower career advancement prospects. many of them, unemployed for a year or more, risk leaving the labour market altogether. workers with low qualifications, third country nationals, and people with disabilities are disproportionately affected. the diversity of situations requires support tailored to the needs of each person. this trend needs to be reversed to ensure that the long-term unemployed can benefit from the economic recovery. tackling long-term unemployment can contribute to sustainable growth and would reduce the impact of higher social assistance. we need to open a way out of poverty for both the workers affected and their families. besides ensuring adequate financial support from the european social fund, we need effective administrative measures. the eu needs to assist member states to exchange good practices to improve their policies and services focusing on better assessment of the unemployed person’s skills and designing a personalised job integration agreement.
i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his thoughts and analysis. the mid-term review is very important in order to analyse the situation and the state of play of the europe 2020 targets that it was supposed to achieve. i think the public consultation last year showed that we need to do more to improve the situation and to take the messages that we have received. in the case of my party, the european people's party, growth and jobs are a priority on our agenda. we are working to achieve our objectives in a sustainable and responsible way. we are also, in this way, supporting a more socially just environment, and so we have adapted to new ways that have become available with the advance of technology. unfortunately, the financial crisis of recent years has been a blow to employment and growth objectives, especially in reducing poverty and social exclusion. among the five ambitious objectives we have before us, special attention should be paid to employment growth, education and social inclusion. not enough has been done in these areas and i believe that without strong economic governance, which helps to drive our economies forward, it will not be possible to achieve the objectives that were planned through this strategy.
mr president, we obviously need banks and financial institutions that operate according to transparent rules that take full account of prudential concerns. however, we are also experiencing deflation. europe faces a huge investment gap. transparency and prudence should not lead to an increase of viscosity in european financial systems. a fine balance needs to be maintained between potentially divergent concerns. the introduction of new systems of surveillance, as with this report covering security financial transaction markets, may be necessary. yet we need to ensure that it is consonant with the economic needs of the times. most measures contemplated here go back to the banks. they are still expected to be behind the big investment leap forward that europe needs to take. such a leap could falter if the eu seems to be sending mixed messages: on the one hand telling banks and the financial institutions to be proactive in their approach to proposals for economic expansion, and on the other hand also telling them that they must follow new prudential ways of doing business. we would like to have greater assurance that what we are doing here – necessary as it is – will not serve to further encourage risk aversion among our financial institutions.
in writing.– coming from an island country in the mediterranean - malta, i have tabled some amendments in different committees aimed at promoting the importance of coastal and maritime tourism in europe. coastal and maritime tourism is not only the largest maritime activity in europe, but also directly affects many other sectors of the eu economy, employing more than 3.2 million people. tourism and in particular coastal and maritime tourism is a lever for growth and job creation in the mediterranean region, therefore unlocking its potential is of utmost importance for the future economic development and growth of the countries in that region. i have supported measures recommending to the european commission to get more active and finally recognise the importance of coastal and island areas and to finally present an action plan with concrete goals and timetables to accompany the 14 actions in the european strategy for more growth and jobs in coastal and maritime tourism. promoting the tourism industry of island countries or regions, such as malta, depends largely on sea and air transport and on the connectivity and accessibility to the island. therefore, the commission needs to look and emphasise the efficiency of state aid in coastal and maritime regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that there is a need to modernise the legislative framework for the cepol agency to provide high-quality training for the police in order to tackle crimes more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because through it the cepol is brought into line with the lisbon treaty and it moreover outlines the objectives and activities of cepol.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the maximisation of the resources allocated to the european police college (cepol ) whilst working within the competences outlined in the treaties. i therefore chose to support this report as it highlights the need to strengthen cepol’s coordination and support role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of ep and of the council on a eu agency law enforcement training, because i support the final agreement and result of the trilogue. the new technical adjustments will align the regulation with the lisbon treaty and will outline the objectives and activities of cepol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the need to improve transparency in the traditional bank sector and non-bank credit activities following the global financial crisis of 2008.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolutions aiming at improving the transparency, regulation and supervision of the securities financing transaction regulation in central reporting. it aims also at disclosure of sfts and also the reuse to investors and minimum requirements for reuse of collateral. i am in favour of the fact that the scope of the regulation was extended whereas smes were exempted from the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stresses the need to increase transparency and monitoring of so-called ‘shadow banking’ to avoid excess exposure of investors to systemic risks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the regulation on reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions (sft-r), which aims at improving transparency, regulation and supervision of sft in central reporting, disclosure of sfts and reuse to investors and minimum requirements for reuse of collateral. i am also glad with the final result to exclude smes and the european system of central banks (escb) from the scope of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because some measures outlined fall within the area of national competence and should be left to member states’ competences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which asks the president to call on the secretary-general of the council of europe to furnish an explanation of the manner in which eu internal law ensures the effective implementation of the provisions of the convention of human rights related to this subject and i look forward to this analysis. i also voted in favour of granting protection and prevent the extradition of edward snowden because i recognise his status as whistle blower. i voted against amendments calling for the suspension of the terrorist finance tracking programme agreement because i am of the view that this programme generated intelligence that helped detect terrorist plots and trace their authors. an eu-us agreement on the exchange of financial information should ensure protection of eu citizens’ privacy. i have supported this resolution as i believe that we need to deal with such a delicate matter very carefully, and only in extreme circumstances resort to curtailing our citizens rights to privacy.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens outlines new evidence on the topic, the status of new legislation, and inquiries enacted in member states after the nsa spying scandal. it provides non-legislative recommendations in the field of it surveillance trying to ensure that european citizens’ fundamental rights are well protected and not under threat from different mass surveillance techniques. the outcome of the vote is even more important given the recent ruling of the european court of justice invalidating safe harbour. i voted in favour of the resolution, because in my personal opinion collection of information and personal data of the european citizens need to be subject to an effective level of protection, especially when this data is transferred to the us. having said that, however, i did not support some parts of the resolution calling for the suspension of the terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) agreement and calling for european common definition of national security, which in my opinion are competences of the member states. we need to find a proper balance between national security and european citizens’ fundamental rights, without sacrificing one principle for another.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i particularly welcome the fact that ‘the improvement of the member states’ employment policies’ is one of the four main policy priorities identified by the commission in this year´s cycle. although there are very modest signs that youth and long-term unemployment rates are improving, they remain alarmingly high in most member states and large differences persist. i believe that employment is the best tool to fight poverty and social exclusion. member states should focus all their energy and resources on facilitating access to the labour market, in particular for young people and the long-term unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted down this report for two main reasons, in particular because the report stresses that one way to combat unemployment is to have flexible labour markets, when such flexible labour markets can have a negative impact on the individual workers. furthermore, it tries to link together wages in line with productivity which can also have a negative impact on workers. the european parliament has been fighting hard to ensure that there is a change in direction in the economic policy led in europe. this report includes several elements of this new policy direction, however these key issues mean that employees’ interests are being overlooked. moreover i voted against amendments which impose the removal of subsidies by 2020. whilst agreeing with the principle we need to bear in mind that different member states have different requirements and a one-size-fits-all approach does not work.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it stresses the need for increased cooperation and coordination between member states to tackle the problems of high debt, lack of competitiveness, and low investment.
in writing. ‒ i am fully convinced that europe and the member states need to ensure a change in direction in the economic policy led in europe, so that citizens do not have to pay for the consequences of the economic crisis. this report includes several elements of this new policy direction: more investment and less austerity, recognition of the real consequence of frontloaded austerity measures, surplus countries to do more efforts in pushing demand, labour market reforms to be sustainable, nevertheless at the end i could not support the final vote because some of the amendments adopted during the plenary vote were not in line with my principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it presents measures which will help to bring the long-term unemployed back to work and alleviate the problems associated with long-term unemployment. long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007, and we have to address the reasons behind this rise. for the long-term unemployed, measures must be targeted and quick. one of the most important factors is for the long-term unemployed not to lose faith in their abilities and not to be discouraged in their search for a successful job opportunity. this can only be done through efficient lifelong learning and reskilling strategies which prevent people from distancing themselves from the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which deals with the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. i agree with the recommendation to ambitiously step up the registration of the long-term unemployed through an employment service aiming at full coverage, assessing the individual potential, needs and job preferences before they reach 18 months of unemployment. furthermore, it is positive to see suggestions such as the need to offer a tailor-made, balanced and comprehensible ‘job integration agreement’ between the long-term unemployed and the services involved, at the latest by the time the person concerned reaches 18 months of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report due to the recommendation that member states develop work training programmes that will increase the employability of workers and also aid in the development of long-term jobs. if the union is to overcome the current economic downturn we must do so in a way that supports our citizens and increases competitiveness on the global market.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the resolution that as a result of the economic crisis and its consequences, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and accounts for half of total unemployment, or more than 12 million people, representing 5% of the eu’s active population, and that over 60% of the long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years in 2014. long term unemployment often leads to poverty, inequalities and social exclusion and progressively distances people from the labour market. therefore, i fully endorse the recommendations suggested in this non-legislative resolution stressing the need to reach out to all the long-term unemployed and calling for close cooperation between, and effective coordination of, all parties involved in the reintegration of the long-term unemployed (including civil society organisations).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur that we should treat the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) as a new type of aircraft and its services should be developed for industry to invest. in addition, in order to integrate rpas to the european airspace, there is a need to develop new technology and standards.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for a clear harmonised and proportionate eu regulatory framework of remotely piloted aircraft systems also known as drones. the report suggests a risk based approach ensuring safety, guaranteeing adequate protection of citizens respecting fundamental rights of privacy and data protection, stimulating investments and innovation in the industry and the creation of sustainable and innovative jobs. as i believe that this report encourages an appropriate balance between the development of this industry and the respect of rights to privacy i have supported it in parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report argues that the growth of the market for drones may be stifled without eu-level legislation due to the fact that national regulations are not always recognised by other member states. therefore i chose to support this report as it is important that the union does not lag behind its competitors in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in the field of civil aviation, which sets out clear guidelines to the commission for the outlining of the upcoming aviation package stressing that the future rules should address issues such as airworthiness, certification-specification, the identity of drones and of the owner/operator, insurance, liability and insurance, data protection and privacy, ‘geofencing’ and no-fly zones, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because tourism plays an important role in the european union and we need to constantly adapt in order to attract more visitors. tourism is often a crucial part of economies of many european regions. therefore, there is a need to improve access to a modern digital infrastructure by providing digital initiatives that seek to promote management of resources.
in writing. ‒ this report provides input to the commission’s reflections to be presented at the annual european forum on tourism. it proposes action in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation, sustainable and responsible tourism as well as the promotion of europe as the world's number one tourist destination. it also calls for better cooperation between the member states and the commission. having a strong eu tourism sector means a stronger maltese tourism sector. acknowledging the centrality of this pillar in malta’s economy and the need to further develop the industry to current trends i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which explores the challenges to increase european tourism’s competitiveness. the report highlights the need to focus on europe’s historical and cultural heritage as a means of attracting greater numbers of tourists to the union. it also recommends that the digitalisation of the tourism industry be further developed to increase the quantity and quality of interactions between tourists and tourism companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe’, providing input into the commission’s reflections to be presented at the annual european forum on tourism. i fully agree with the recommendations in this report proposing actions in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation, sustainable and responsible tourism as well as the promotion of europe as the world’s number one tourist destination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because recent tragedies, such as those of flights af447 and mh370, involving passenger airplanes, showed us the great need for better aviation safety regulations and prevention systems. we must provide grounds for the creation of better tracking systems which will allow us to have better control and knowledge of what is happening on board an aircraft. the resolution also takes into consideration the safety and concerns of all airspace users.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with flight tracking systems. as of today these systems cover only around 30% of the global airspace, corresponding to the national territory. there is no coverage overseas or in the desert. the international civil aviation organization has identified satellite ads-b as one of the technologies that can assist flight tracking outside of the most densely populated areas where other forms of terrestrial aircraft tracking systems are limited. through this resolution parliament asks for the opinion of the commission on the necessity to make the radio spectrum band allocation. i support this initiative because of a number of aspects including the security dimension, hence i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as the world radiocommunication conference in geneva appears to be an apt opportunity to explore the idea of a new system to track aircraft, as recent tragedies have exposed the shortcomings of the current systems in place.
in writing. ‒ flight-tracking systems today cover only around 30% of global airspace, corresponding to national territory. there is no coverage over seas or deserts. the international civil aviation organization (icao) has identified satellite ads-b as one of the technologies that can assist flight tracking outside of the most densely—populated areas where other forms of terrestrial aircraft tracking systems are limited. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, the commission is right in seeking to streamline and prioritise the approach of the european semester. however, the political rhetoric used to frame and run initiatives has an influence that extends beyond their scope. on the issue of taxation, for instance, the need for europe-wide action should be restricted to the need for transparency. widening this approach to open the way for tax convergence and harmonisation is outside the present scope of the treaties. it is also counterproductive, since it further limits the flexibility of the regions and peripheral countries which most need it. so i would agree to all measures intended to ensure transparency in the assessment of tax dues, but not to measures that contribute to tax convergence and harmonisation. first, there need to be viable programmes that really compensate for the growing economic divergence between the centre and the periphery of the european union. too often, eu programmes are assessed on whether they contribute to greater or lesser union. this focus is misplaced. we should be asking all the time how programmes will directly benefit citizens – which citizens, how, when? – taking into account national realities and avoiding one-size—fits—all solutions. with the right answers, asking whether we need more or less europe could become irrelevant. there is no better way of generating growth in europe.
in writing.– the valletta summit taking place today is essentially a stepping stone towards a better-managed and more effective international migratory policy. immediate effective measures are not enough to adequately deal with this phenomenon. we need long-term solutions to encourage economic growth and the creation of more job opportunities for regions in africa and the middle east which are currently facing a mass exodus of people. the creation of two new trust funds is such an essential step for all. europe is ready to invest in these regions, but in turn we must ensure that we have adequate safeguards in place to make sure that the people who need these funds are the ones who are benefiting from them. i call for these funds to be manned by reputable international organisations to ensure that projects are completed and create jobs for people in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this programme will be effective in improving the existing european cross-border and cross-sector interoperability solutions and in developing new ones as a means of modernising the public sector. when agreeing to this report the aim was to make full use of the available technologies and together these measures will have a positive impact on the work of public administrations, businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it further improves the previous isa system, which was effective in its implementation and helped achieve interoperability between member states in the field of public administration. isa2 seeks to establish a decision for the period 2016-2020 and focuses on improving, operating and reusing existing cross border and cross sector interoperability solutions. as the shadow rapporteur for the s&d group in the libe committee on this file, alongside my colleagues i also ensured that a clause which refers to data protection safeguards and stronger guarantees for people’s data was included in this legislative proposal. through this inclusion, parliament has guaranteed better safeguards for european citizen’s data.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it is essential that we update and improve the ways that data is exchanged between administrations and eu institutions. the implementation of these interoperability solutions is a key component of the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on interoperability solutions for european public administration, businesses and citizens (isa2), which aims to harmonise the interoperability landscape in europe, saving time and costs for citizens and business, and contributing to the modernisation of european public administrations and to the creation of a digital single market. the proposal will support the interconnection and digitisation of public administrations and collaboration between them, and will ensure unified electronic cross-border or cross-sector interaction between european public administrations in areas such as government, health, invoicing and procurement. i also strongly welcome the introduction in the programme of new priorities such as greater involvement of citizens and businesses and enhanced cooperation between member states to overcome the digital divide, and to develop the creation of user communities and exchanges of good practice.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report mostly because it aims to bring the european parliament closer to the voters. it also outlines provisions which will improve the functioning of the european parliament as well as the visibility of european parties.
in writing. ‒ i support the overall aim of making european elections more transparent, visible, fair and democratic. i am in favour of this resolution as it emphasises that political parties need to select their lists democratically and transparently; that ballot papers may give equal visibility to the national parties and european political parties; that eu citizens living or working outside the eu should be able to vote in these elections; and that member states may consider ways to harmonise voting at age 16.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is important that parliament continues to strive to advance the democratic credentials of the european union. these measures are intended to address the democratic deficit and increase participation by the union’s citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament report on the reform of the electoral law. in my opinion, the report provides valuable recommendations that will lead to more transparent, visible, fair and democratic european elections. we need improvement to the european electoral law in order to bring the european parliament closer to its citizens. having said that, however, i also acknowledge that the electoral law needs fully to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and that it should be seen in relation to the national context, cultures and traditions of each and every country. i welcome the recommendation to lower the voting age to 16 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these resolutions because they aim to improve the competitiveness of european air companies within the wider global aviation market and innovation. i believe that the two elements are interlinked. we are in need of a long-term aviation strategy and the measures outlined in the resolutions will help us achieve this. the resolutions also seek to eliminate unfair practices and prevent, for example, unfair pricing.
in writing. ‒ as the european commission is soon adopting an important aviation package, this ep resolution is entitled to underline the priority of ep in this sector. i support the resolution as it asks the commission to act strongly in both aspects from a competition point of view to ensure a playing level field and, on the social aspect, to ensure fair competition and strongly fight against social dumping.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses that, in order for the european aviation industry to remain competitive, we must support innovation in a number of areas that affect the sector. the resolution highlights air traffic management, remotely piloted aircraft, alternative fuels and research in aircraft and engine designs. the resolution also focuses on the need to ensure and maintain high standards of safety in european aviation and take into account the findings of the recent easa task force report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the future of the european aviation package. the resolution underlines the top priorities of the european parliament in the aviation sector and should contribute to the important aviation package that the european commission is expected to adopt at the beginning of december. the aviation sector and airline companies are facing strong competition from third countries, therefore the commission needs to act strongly to ensure a playing level field and fair competition for european companies.
animals are creatures who feel, feel, and suffer like us. i find it hard to understand how people can take advantage of a creature that cannot defend itself. now, unfortunately, many people believe that animals should be used only for monetary gain, food, science, hunting, and other forms of exploitation. animals shall not be abused and shall be treated with dignity and respect. animals have no voice and no vote to protest the way humans treat them. we therefore have an obligation to speak up and defend those who have no voice. as the current animal welfare strategy will come to an end this year, i urge the commission to implement, without delay, the outstanding points from the current strategy as well as to draw up a new strategy that will benefit not only animals, but also everyone who loves and respects animals. let us show our true civility by giving voice and protection to these creatures - often more compassionate and loving than man.
mr president, i would like to commend the vice-president on the energy union tour because, when he was in malta, i could see at first hand his efforts to bring the energy union closer to its citizens. it is precisely this point: citizens should remain at the heart of the energy union. they need to be empowered to make the right decisions, and this goes hand in hand with our fight against energy poverty and also with climate change. with high energy prices, the most vulnerable are always the worst hit. in malta we know what a difference a significant reduction in electricity prices can make for consumers, whilst it gets the economy going as well. in this regard, we need a properly-functioning electricity market design which can help consumers control their energy consumption and production alike – one that can integrate properly all market players, including consumers as renewable energy providers, ultimately contributing to climate change action. if we keep our citizens at the core of our decisions, we can truly make 2016 the key year of delivery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the acts outlined in it have become irrelevant because they were either temporary by nature or simply succeeded by newer legislation.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts that relate to migratory flows have become obsolete after the entry into force of other eu legislative acts such as regulations. legal certainty and transparency require the deletion of such legislative acts so that citizens may be better advised. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as part of the commission’s policy on regulatory fitness, three related instruments will repeal a number of legal acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation and a number in relation to the schengen acquis. these acts are no longer legally relevant, either because they have been replaced by more up-to-date legislation or are of a temporary nature. for this reason, i found no objection in supporting this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing obsolete acts from the schengen acquis as it will lead to more efficient and transparent eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on repealing certain acts from the schengen acquis, which is as part of the commission policy on regulatory fitness. this related instrument will repeal a number of legal acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation and a number in relation to the schengen acquis. all of the acts to be repealed are no longer legally relevant either because they have been replaced by a more up-to-date legal act or they are of a temporary nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to update our legislation in order for it to remain applicable and in line with the constantly changing trends. outdated legislation can often pose serious problems and we cannot allow this, especially in the area of security.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts that are part of the schengen acquis and certain legal instruments for the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have been identified as unnecessary due to their temporary nature and the redundant nature of the acts. the commission’s proposal to repeal legislative acts which are no longer applicable helps to improve transparency and legal certainty for citizens. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this vote pertains to the repeal of a number of legal acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which are no longer relevant to european legislation, or are temporary in nature. these were repealed on the basis of the commission’s refit policy, which aims at making eu law simpler and more effective. for this reason i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation as the repealing of obsolete acts will allow for better efficiency and cohesion in the eu with regards to police cooperation and judicial matters.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on repealing certain acts from the schengen acquis, which is essential in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as part of the commission policy on regulatory fitness, this related instrument will repeal a number of legal acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation and a number in relation to the schengen acquis. all of the acts to be repealed are no longer legally relevant either because they have been replaced by a more up-to-date legal act or because they are of a temporary nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the removal of the obsolete acts will make our legislation more efficient and effective and will improve transparency and help in combating crime.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts that include driving disqualifications, the european evidence warrant and establishing minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences and sanctions have become obsolete either because they have been changed by other laws or never came into effect. the commission’s proposal to repeal legislative acts which are no longer applicable helps to improve transparency and legal certainty for citizens. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it focuses on the repeal of certain acts within the field of policy cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which are no longer relevant to european legislation. the repeal of these acts is not politically motivated and comes as part of the commission’s policy on regulatory fitness, which aims at keeping eu legislation simple and relevant.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this regulation as it is important that parliament continues to strive for the advancement of police and judicial cooperation within the european union in relation to criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as part of the commission policy on regulatory fitness, this related instrument will repeal a number of legal acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation and a number in relation to the schengen acquis. all of the acts to be repealed are no longer legally relevant either because they have been replaced by a more up-to-date legal act or they are of a temporary nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because my opinion is that the eu can only benefit from membership of the extended commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). up till now, we only participated in its activities but did not have the right to vote: this now changes with the consent of parliament.
in writing. ‒ this proposal solidifies the eu’s goals to maintain sustainable use of fisheries on a global scale by allowing the eu to participate in and obtain membership of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) to protect and provide necessary means of harvesting bluefin tuna while also allowing the population to grow. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this agreement as it allows the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006 through its representation by the european commission. the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of the species of southern bluefin tuna wherever it is to be found.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu’s accession to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as the eu’s active cooperation with regional fisheries organisations is essential in order to contribute to the sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on accession to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), which concerns authorisation of the exchange of letters between the eu and the extended commission. the signing of this instrument of international law will allow the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the directive currently in place needed to be updated in order to ensure more transparency and conditions for fairer competition on the market. the new directive will aim to protect policyholders better and generally to enhance the services offered to them.
in writing. ‒ this directive is an updated revised edition to replace existing eu standards that pertain to transparency and standards for the allocation of rewards to agents and mediators. this directive is not confined to one part of the distribution chain but applies to all sections of direct sale through the insurance company to banks or mediators. also the report eliminates conditions where the sale of a home loan is determined by the additional purchase of insurance. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this first reading agreement on insurance mediation is aimed at improving the way insurance products are sold and to improve protection for consumers and retail investors, notably through greater transparency on price and costs, prevention of conflicts of interest, better information and advice when selling products and more sellers’ professional qualifications to match the complexity of products. as this report reinforces the position of our citizens in the process of buying an insurance product, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it aims to ensure a level playing field for all those involved in the selling of insurance products and to improve the protection of insurance policyholders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on insurance mediation, which will improve the way insurance products are sold and will improve consumers’ and retail investors’ protection, notably through greater transparency on price and costs, the prevention of conflicts of interest, better information and advice when selling products, and more professional qualifications for sellers to match the complexity of products. this will allow the way that insurance products are sold to be improved, notably regarding the information and advice delivered to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it outlines many measures which i believe will be effective in the elimination, or at least reduction, of child poverty and social exclusion. we need to make sure that the youngest members of our society meet their basic needs but also that they have access to quality education and health services.
in writing. ‒ the number of children living in absolute or long-term poverty is increasing, thereby leading to a higher number of children also experiencing social exclusion and inequality. poverty for children does not only mean the inability of a family to house and feed children but also takes into consideration the inability of children to participate in sports, culture, educational activities and so on. recommendations made in this report encourage member states to promote social rights and labour laws directed at children and their parents that strengthen the fundamental welfare benefits of the child. the report also calls for funds to be re-allocated to food aid programmes. in terms of education, steps must be taken to provide quality education and effective access to such education for all children whether they are impoverished or not. i thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that children are our present and our future and as politicians we need to do our best to provide them with a safe, healthy and prosperous environment for them to reach their full potential. however the crisis that some member states face has, together with their austerity policies, contributed to the increase in child poverty levels. as the commission has avoided developing any proposals in this respect, this report aims at putting forward suggestions to help the eu reduce poverty and inequality in this field and work towards europe 2020 targets. i supported these suggestions as i believe that we need to offer a future to our next generation by breaking the vicious circle of poverty at the youngest age possible. this means ensuring that every child at risk of poverty has access to free healthcare, free education, decent housing and adequate nutrition.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at tackling the worrying trend of the rising number of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu. these inequalities can affect a child for life as childhood is when socio-economic and cognitive skills are developed. therefore, i voted in favour of increasing the eu’s appropriation of funds to fighting poverty and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty, which aims to raise awareness about the need to develop policy responses to reduce poverty and inequalities in the eu and work towards the eu2020 targets. europe needs to offer a future to our next generation by breaking the vicious circle of poverty at the youngest age possible. this means ensuring that every child at risk of poverty has access to free healthcare, free education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. europe will be a better place if we make equal opportunities a reality for all children in europe. however, i have never supported paragraphs guaranteeing women the right to sexual and reproductive health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there still exist communities, such as the roma, that experience exclusion and segregation within our society and we need to increase our efforts in helping them to integrate better. i agree that the cohesion policy, despite the recent cuts in public spending, is a very good way of improving the participation of the disadvantaged in our society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the cohesion policy of the eu seeks to address disparities experienced by marginalised communities. the report calls for attention to be given to children and women, and for measures to be implemented to address the disadvantages that specifically affect children and women. member states are also encouraged to use the funds at their disposal in a way that effectively addresses the challenges of social inclusion, poverty and discrimination, including in a manner which is meaningful to the marginalised communities themselves.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on putting forward suggestions in order to help address the needs of marginalised communities within cohesion policy. one such suggestion is to specifically define the concept of ʽmarginalised communitiesʼ so that eu citizens falling within this category can benefit from the european structural and investment funds embedded within eu cohesion policy. marginalised communities face challenges which arise from this reality and for this reason i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it calls for the use of eu funds for the inclusion of marginalised communities which will promote and support greater cohesion in european societies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities, which aims to raise awareness about the need to develop policy responses to reduce poverty and inequalities in the eu and work towards the eu 2020 targets.
in writing. ‒ although the rapporteur is right to point out the great involvement of the eu within the un, our shared rights and numerous commitments, i voted against the report because it also seeks to justify abortion, which is against my beliefs and my conscience, and i could therefore not agree with it.
in writing. ‒ the eu and its member states play an important role in continuing to foster peace, security, good governance and human rights. the eu is committed to the support of a comprehensive reform of the un system to strengthen the institution, also through measures such as enhanced mediation capabilities, early warning tools, and achievable mandates for peacebuilding and peacekeeping operations. the amendment introducing paragraph 22a is however symptomatic of how reports include positions on issues which are within state competence, such as that of abortion on which i voted against. it was only because this amendment passed that i also voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report in question deals with the european union’s specific role within the united nations, as a separate entity to its member states. the report aims at putting forward suggestions to better the eu’s foreign policy in these aspects – at a crucial point in time where the eu must take on a central role in international affairs. i support such changes as i believe that the eu must play an active role within the organisation by projecting its values and contributing in providing global solutions to global problems. i am also satisfied that the report sends a strong message about the need to reform the security council and that it expresses its wish to see a woman elected as secretary-general of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which states that the eu must play an active role within the organisation, project its values, and contribute to effective multilateralism with a view of providing global solutions to global problems. the report sends a strong message about the need of reforming the security council and expresses its wish to see a woman elected as secretary-general of the united nations. however, i have never supported paragraphs guaranteeing women the right to sexual and reproductive health and safe abortion.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to express my thanks for the fruitful discussion we have had in this house at a very timely moment. it has focused on one of the root causes of the problem – not on everything – and where the solution should come from as well. in our collective effort to address this issue and to fight radicalisation, we must by all means avoid stigmatising any community, any ethnicity or origin, whether they are muslims, refugees or migrants. as i said, and as many of you repeated, almost all the perpetrators of the recent attacks on european soil were home-grown, and religion – any religion – has nothing to do with their acts. radicalism has. fanaticism has. hate has. relating terrorism to migration is stirring up hatred and leads to a vicious circle. i am really glad and proud to participate in a discussion in a parliament where members from the whole democratic spectrum defend our values of respect, tolerance and acceptance. i would also like to praise mr kirkhope’s intervention. i hope that common sense will prevail in our working together to face the common threats. to do this we have different means, on which the commission has been working for months, to put at the disposal of all member states: exchange of information, closer cooperation among law enforcement authorities and agencies, a stronger legal framework against terrorism and detection of terrorist threats, effective management of the external borders, stricter rules on firearms, and targeted cooperation with key third countries. but the basis of an effective response is addressing its roots, and that is the central subject of today’s debate: countering radicalisation, both in the real world and the virtual world, both by legislation and through schemes of cooperation with the private sector, both at local level and with the exchange of best practices among member states – and all this calmly and firmly, without demonising anybody. madame la rapporteure – pouvez-vous lui transmettre ce que je viens de dire? –, chers collègues du parlement, je vous remercie pour ce débat. notre travail n'est pas encore terminé, mais nous sommes unis dans notre lutte contre la radicalisation et ses conséquences.
in writing.– we were all shocked at the tragic attacks on the 13 november in paris. these terrorist attacks aim at dividing our society and planting the seed of fear. and it is fear that stops us from living and upholding our values. and those values are liberty, equality and fraternity. the fact that all the terrorists were european citizens has painfully demonstrated once again the immediate security threat deriving from radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations and ‘foreign fighters’. europe is facing a different kind of threat – the phenomenon of ‘home-grown’ radicalisation. the increasing number of european terrorist ‘foreign fighters’, with more than 5 000 young europeans being part of terrorist organisations, highlights the immediate need to reinforce policy measures against radicalisation and religious fundamentalism, but also the need to understand this new phenomenon. therefore, i ask: what went wrong and why have radicalisation and religious fundamentalism succeeded in turning young europeans into weapons? radicalisation is a serious threat to internal security and the fight against it requires a common long-lasting strategy from the international community, eu-wide cooperation networks and coordination between member states.
mr president, there are many important challenges facing employers and workers themselves in the field of health and safety, and on a particular note i mention a new set of risks such as psychosocial risks which certainly cannot be ignored. they have been introduced inevitably due to the introduction of new technological elements which, although sometimes helping companies to expand and helping productivity, at the same time, are having a negative impact on the overall balance of workers' welfare. as a result, stress management, which includes psychological risks, is one of the most significant challenges in respecting health at the workplace. and so i believe that these risks should be managed systematically so that we can safeguard workers' health more effectively. and so i agree with the commissioner that the commission should work on a monitoring and support programme for affected workers and recommend guidelines to combat these risks. finally, mr president, i think we should ask, as my friend mrs mcintyre has rightly said, for transparent and simplified legislation so that european companies can implement new measures without new administrative burdens.
mr president, paris was targeted because paris is the embodiment of what europe stands for. they meant to make us all feel unsafe living our lives. we cannot let that happen. we need a much stronger approach to radicalisation on the ground and online, we need to root out the hate preachers and to come down harder on foreign fighters. we have also heard a lot about how it is our policies on migration that are somehow to blame. let me be clear: these attacks were perpetrated by murderers, not persons who are running away from persecution, from terror and from precisely these murderers. let us not allow these attacks to breed intolerance, because this would play right into isis’s hands to turn our communities into their recruiting ground. at the same time, we cannot bury our heads in the sand. people have real fears and these must be addressed. this means that we do need stronger eu—level security legislation, like a pnr system. we need to know who is coming in and we must insist that all member states fulfil all their legal obligations, for example by fingerprinting everyone arriving.
in writing.– terrorism strikes at the very core of the structures on which societies drive. stating that it is an attack on our liberty, freedom and democratic values, is stating the obvious. in addressing it one must ensure that we do not allow the terror and shock it creates to destabilise on freedoms, on social interaction as well on economies. our response must be proportionate to the threat, but to identify the severity of values of the threat each country requires mutual intelligence and security support. sharing of our security knowledge intelligence is key to empowering each other’s security. terrorism blatantly shows that no country can be secure on its own; european security is established and entwined with that of other countries.
in writing.– terrorism focuses on instilling fear within people’s hearts and disrupts people'’ lives. but if we allow terrorism to obstruct our everyday lives, to destroy our way of life and our lifestyles, then we allow terrorism to win. we cannot allow terrorists to create a divide within our union, because this is exactly what terrorism feeds on: we must be united in the face of terrorism. we can only do this by taking the initiative in the field of security and defence. for this reason we must go above and beyond and move from an inter-governmental policy. we must safeguard schengen, a fundamental pillar of the construction of europe, by making our borders stronger, and this is why i look forward to the upcoming frontex regulation. we must arm our intelligence services with the necessary tools while ensuring the exchange of information at european governmental level between intelligence services. furthermore, we must implement eu-pnr, in line with strong data protection safeguards. we must fight fundamentalism through unity and not through more fear. we must implement next-generation solutions to next-generation issues with bravery and courage, encompassing our european values in our european response.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i understand that the draft amending budget from member states’ contributions to the union budget can alleviate the current refugee crisis and provide humanitarian assistance.
in writing. ‒ additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis and further financial efforts will be needed to provide humanitarian assistance along the transit routes and to manage the challenges posed by the reception of unprecedented numbers of refugees in europe’s cities and regions. this is now our main priority.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a revision of the forecast of eu income from customs duties (decrease of eur 9.4 billion) and thus readjusts the projected funds made available to the eu to spend on particular items. the same report reacts to changes and underlines that substantial additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis. it notes that member states’ financial pledges for the africa trust fund, the syria trust fund and un agencies supporting refugees, reconfirmed at a number of recent council meetings, have not yet been met. member states were lagging behind by eur 2.3 billion on their commitments at the beginning of november 2015 – this when further financial efforts are needed to provide humanitarian assistance along the transit routes and to manage the challenges posed by the reception of unprecedented numbers of refugees. as i agree with providing as much assistance as possible to both the refugees and to those communities trying to help them, i have supported this report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the submission of the commission and taking into account the council’s position, i chose to support this report, which highlights the various measures agreed by the commission, council and parliament to balance the additional funds required from member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 8/2015 (dab 8/2015), which relates to a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the leftovers from the 2014 vat and gni balances, the budgeting of the 2015 balances as well as an update on the forecast on other revenues like fines and a reduction in appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i approve to mobilise the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to address the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ parliament decided to vote in plenary without amendment and debate regarding the reports amending budget on own resources and european data protection, mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for payment of advances in the 2016 budget. parliament has reached a compromise on these reports at committee stage. the migration crisis is a challenge which needs to be faced through adequate resources, and thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to address the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the current migration situation needs also a budgetary response.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, as it a positive step towards solidarity between member states in tackling the refugee crisis. the resolution also highlights the need for the union budget to be more flexible to adequately handle the various unforeseen challenges that arise.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to address the refugee crisis, which is extremely important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation aims to respond in a rapid and efficient manner to urgent situations and to show solidarity with the populations of regions.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is a mechanism that responds to major natural disasters and expresses european solidarity with disaster-stricken regions within europe. the solidarity fund is not just a form of a financial support but also a clear political message of solidarity. thus i agree that the recommended amounts should be included in the 2016 budget and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters; this report simply enables the fund to be mobilised in an amount up to a maximum of eur 50 million for the advance payments. as europeans we need to express solidarity with one another in moments of need. that is why i supported this report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it proposes to make finance available so that the union will be able to adequately handle the various unforeseen challenges that may arise next year.
in writing. ‒ i am in agreement with the report on mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2016 budget. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i approve the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ the agreement reached between parliament and council on the eu budget for 2016 foresees more funding for migration, jobs and competitiveness; i thus voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this procedural report which simply approves the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee in relation to the 2016 budgetary procedure, which consists of a number of agreements taken together including the list of budget lines not modified, compared to the draft budget or the council’s position; summary figures by financial framework headings; line-by-line figures on all budget items; and the consolidated document showing the figures and final text of all lines modified during the conciliation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the various measures agreed by the commission, council and parliament to balance the additional funds required from member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on 2016 budgetary procedure because i am in agreement with the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure.
in writing. ‒ di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) is a manufactured chemical that is commonly added to plastics to make them flexible. it meets the criteria of the reach regulation as it is a substance with endocrine disrupting properties and having serious effects on human health. for this reason i agree that the commission should reject the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled pvc containing dehp, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of objecting to the commission’s draft measure that grants to certain legal entities such as chemical and pvc manufacturing companies authorisation of the use of dehp phthalate. dehp pvc has been widely used in everyday products, such as artificial christmas trees, textiles, furniture, shoes, building materials, etc. and is considered a toxic to reproduction, an endocrine disruptor and immune toxicant, according to the reach regulation. possible consequences include genital malformation, and it can significantly increase the risk of male infertility. the wide and continued use of dehp is a serious threat to our health, and in line with the recommendation of the european chemicals agency and its risk assessment committee, the substance should be fully prohibited in europe. moreover, the commission’s authorisation did not provide comprehensive analysis of the alternative or an acceptable risk assessment of health impacts.
in writing. ‒ dehp is classified under eu law as toxic to reproduction, and member state representatives in the eu chemicals agency are unanimous about its endocrine disrupting properties. therefore i chose to vote in favour of the objection to authorise dehp’s use.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on objection pursuant to rule 106: granting an authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). dehp is a phthalate, a group of ‘gender-bending’ chemicals which cause the males of species to become more female. these chemicals have disrupted the endocrine systems of wildlife, causing breast and testicular cancers, birth malformations and infertility, to name just a few. moreover, it is also a suspected carcinogen and a neuro and immune toxicant. dehp in pvc is widely used in everyday products in a very wide range of pvc consumer articles such as artificial christmas trees, textiles, furniture, shoes, building materials, etc. furthermore, it is still the chemical that is most commonly notified to the eu rapex system as posing a chemical risk. safer alternatives are available. alternatives for the uses of dehp in pvc and for the uses of pvc containing dehp products and articles are available on the european market, including alternative substances, materials, processes and technologies.
in writing. ‒ i firmly believe in tax transparency and the fight against tax fraud, but this does not mean the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). the eu is not a homogenous area and not all regions in the eu face the same economic realities, be it for their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. while the report did contain some useful points on transparency, which we supported, we are of the view that questions of tax of the nature of ccctb must remain an issue of national competence since they reflect the different economies of member states. we are convinced that a one-size-fits all approach is not the right way forward for europe as inevitably it would be the eu’s smaller economies, such as malta, that would bear the disproportionate brunt of such policies.
in writing. ‒ i firmly believe in tax transparency and the fight against tax fraud, but in my view that does not mean the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). the eu is not a homogenous area and not all regions in the eu face the same economic realities, be it for their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. while the report did contain some useful points on transparency, which our delegation supported, we are of the view that questions of tax of the nature of ccctb must remain an issue of national competence since they reflect the different economies of member states. we are convinced that a one-size-fits all approach is not the right way forward for europe as inevitably it would be the eu’s smaller economies, such as malta, that would bear a disproportionate brunt of such policies.
in writing. ‒ the report makes recommendations regarding an improvement in transparency related to the taxation measures applying in eu member states. i agree with these recommendations and fully support measures designed to promote full transparency in national tax treatments. however, the report also proposes measures that implicitly or explicitly would introduce tax convergence and harmonisation on an eu-wide basis. this goes against the interests of smaller economies of the eu, which lack the endowments of the larger economies. their flexibility in policy-making is already constrained, among others, by the convergence in vat rates, state aid rules, the single currency and the six pack/two pack rules applied to their budgets. reducing the tax flexibility of such economies would further increase these disparities, which is unfair, dysfunctional and unacceptable. tax competition should remain part of the limited array of decision tools available to national economies. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we do need better tax transparency tools and better progress in our fight against tax fraud, but that does not mean the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). not every state in the eu faces the same economic realities, be it for their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. while the report did contain some useful points on transparency, which i supported, questions of tax of the nature of ccctb must remain an issue of national competence since they reflect the different economies of member states. a one-size-fits all approach and the ccctb is not the right way forward for europe as inevitably it would be the eu’s smaller economies, such as malta, that would bear the disproportionate brunt of such policies. i therefore could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ as far as taxation at eu level is concerned, i have always been in favour of transparency, coordination and exchange of information, including on an automatic basis. i will always agree with recommendations and fully support measures targeting abuse, enhancing transparency and addressing instances of harmful tax competition in the area of corporate taxation as promulgated by international standards. at the same time, i am not in favour of a move towards an eu—wide basis to introduce tax convergence and harmonisation in direct tax matters. it is important to keep in mind that small economies do not face the same economic realities and domestic market size, geographical proximity or resources as big ones and they therefore need a certain latitude in tax policy otherwise a one-size-fits all approach can place them in a disadvantaged position. i also have reservations about the mandatory ccctb provisions and a financial transaction tax. in this context, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that society has no place for discrimination based on races, religions and ideas. in addition, i am concerned that more than 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations, so we should cooperate to fight against the radicalism and recruitment by terrorist organizations.
in writing. ‒ member states retain the core competence in combating the radicalisation of eu citizens, but a concerted eu approach is needed to be effective in combating the threat posed by radicalised eu residents and citizens. it is now estimated that over 5 000 eu citizens have left to fight for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria, so we urgently need an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens and present a thorough analysis and a wide range of proposals that covers: recruitment on internet, the radicalisation in prisons. we need to establish a mechanism of alert and support to the families. member states should exchange information on the internal and external dimension of the threat, de-radicalisation process, how to prevent departures and anticipate the returns.
in writing. ‒ member states have core competence in combatting the radicalisation of eu citizens. however, a concerted eu approach is needed to be effective. the aim of this report is to make recommendations on an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation of european citizens. the quickening pace of this phenomenon means that law enforcement measures are no longer sufficient; the report recommends to adopt a complementary strategy based more on prevention. we need to have an effective eu-wide effort that tackles radicalisation, and for this reason i gave it my support.
in writing. ‒ this report makes recommendations on an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens which encompasses a wide vary of proposals from recruitment on the internet, to education as well as highlighting the need for the exchange of information between member states. i voted in favour of this report as a cohesive strategy is needed within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, which aims to make recommendations on an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation of european citizens. the quickening pace of this phenomenon means that law enforcement measures are no longer sufficient and therefore this report recommends adopting a complementary strategy based more on prevention. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this because employees should have the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace. the ppe was able to achieve points concerning new generation work-related risks they might face and require member states to promote rehabilitation and reintegration measures for their older workforce.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses that employees have a right to the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace, and welcomes the commission’s communication on the eu framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020. it is important to address new generation work-related risks such as psycho-social risks. member states need to promote rehabilitation and reintegration measures for older workers and we need to consider concrete measures on work-related disorders. the employer also plays a role but is one of the stakeholders and measures should not involve just this stakeholder alone.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 identified many important challenges facing european union employees and employers, but it lacks an ambitious agenda for concrete legislative proposals to improve the situation of workers with regard to existing and new and emerging risks as well as work related diseases. likewise it does not adequately address the implementation, compliance and enforcement of existing legislation. the own-initiative report deals with these issues, proposing also a new legislative initiative and the setting of binding targets to improve the occupational safety and health for workers. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft report as it underlines employees’ rights to the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace, while stating more concrete legislative measures to be included in the eu framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to present concrete legislative proposals regarding better health and safety at work and to this end to turn its ‘strategic framework’ into a real strategy on health and safety at work. the financial and economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to undermine occupational risk prevention policies as this approach is neither acceptable nor effective. nor should alleged administrative simplifications (refit) lead to lower health and safety standards for workers. all workers, regardless of the size of their employer, their member state of employment or the type of employment contract under which they are hired, have a right to the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace. the implementation, compliance and enforcement of health and safety provisions must be improved, new and emerging risks tackled and the fight against work-related diseases stepped up.
mr president, allow me to make a few comments on the valletta summit. on the one hand, i welcome the fact that europe is beginning to talk to the countries that are the source of the largest flows of refugees, whether refugees for economic reasons or refugees driven from their homes by war. on the other hand, when i look at the conclusions of this summit, i am relatively disappointed and i agree with my colleagues who point out that these conclusions are not enough and that, in my view, more and more intensive action will be needed with the countries from which the largest flows of refugees come. we have spoken and we have only spoken of the consequences on the floor of this house. we have spent a lot of time pushing for and debating the so-called quotas, and in my opinion, quotas don't work and they won't work. it's also clear that the return policy, the surveillance of the external borders and so on, is not working very well. for example, if the return policy is to work, then we really need to have partners on the other side, the states where economic asylum seekers are returned. the idea of a trust fund, which was also raised here today, is correct in my view, but the amount allocated to the fund is, in my view, very small. it's hard to solve the economic problems of several states. there is also the question of whether this amount will be collected at all, and, above all, there are not very clear rules on how this amount will be controlled and how it will be distributed. i would personally advise the commission to discuss more about greater cooperation with african countries, to support them, for example by abolishing certain customs provisions, to promote trade and these countries will be able to develop more. they make money through their own businesses, not through projects that threaten to have that money often stolen, dismantled. i think that we should continue to negotiate and support these countries economically in the future.
mr president, to be honest, the valletta summit was really motivated on the european side by the need to control the irregular flow of economic migration to europe. it has, however, stimulated what could become an effective dialogue regarding the economic and social complementarities that should exist between africa and europe. neoliberal globalisation makes this very difficult to achieve. actually the european union lacks the tools needed to help generate sufficient employment opportunities in africa to make economic migration unattractive. worse, many private projects in africa, spurred by globalisation, have not served to increase job opportunities in the economy as a whole. corruption, waste of resources and greater social inequalities have spread, so desperate people go far from home to find work. europe may be too distracted by the crisis to take the lead in what is really needed: a marshall plan for africa where public agencies take full charge and do not simply delegate initiatives to the private sector or wait for the latter to take them. african development should not be dominated by global free-market forces but planned by agreement and effectively implemented. many vested ideas and interests will have to change. i hope the valletta summit was a first step in this very long process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – sure, but that reflects multinational corporations’ strategies. they use governments, they use the eu, they use structures that they have to dominate global financial markets to get it the best way, so that is what is happening. globalisation is actually at the moment manipulating the markets you mention, and this is to the disadvantage of european consumers and of african workers. and that is the reality.
the valletta summit was an opportunity for the european union and africa to strengthen their dialogue. an action plan was agreed and funds were allocated. but this summit failed to give the necessary attention to the human rights situation and corruption that are plaguing many african countries. i expected a strong position on the factors that are pushing the boghod people out of africa: the lack of governance, social injustice, inequality, conflict and corruption among african countries. the european union must show strong political will to agree those measures that can really make a difference. african leaders also have an important role to play. they have the opportunity to strengthen cooperation between them, to put their countries on their feet. this position does not go hand in hand with corruption. i therefore call for the establishment of a tribunal on public corruption with the support of the united nations. the tribunal will identify and address corruption that exists in africa, which has a direct impact on citizens in africa and also in our countries.
mr president, the events after the valletta summit give its outcomes on security a new meaning. serious commitment to the outcomes of the valletta summit and the g20 meeting is assured by the european institutions, but this commitment needs to be equally present from member states and third countries. security threats are global, necessitating global response and cooperation – but we would be very mistaken to leave local action by the wayside. our response needs to be both global and local. we can protect our citizens when we realise that strong internal and border security would be insufficient if our neighbour does not have the same security capacity. security threats transcend physical borders, and the resetting of physical borders will not protect us but will simply artificially confine us to a bubble. the call to re-establish our internal physical borders shows how fear and terror transcends countries. we need to appreciate that our citizens are reacting out of fear, and we must provide them with security. but it is not more physical borders that we need. we need cooperation and coordination of our resources, reflected in specific actions which do not take ages to be initiated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because we need a clear definition of low-income developing countries and emerging countries because under the original definition china is still a developing country. this plan urges for a trading system that does not discriminate, especially for companies, smes and innovative start-ups in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ this resolution focuses on the special needs and disadvantages of low-income developing countries. it calls for a clear definition of developing countries and low income so as to adjust the identifying factors merely enabling the world trade organization (wto) to work more effectively. the resolution supports a structural reform system for the wto, in order to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system taking into account the role and interests of smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups.
in writing. ‒ the doha round is the latest round of trade negotiations among world trade organization (wto) members. the wto has been instrumental in avoiding fully fledged and widespread protectionism. launched in 2001, the doha round aims at creating new trading opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current imbalances in the trading system by considering the needs of developing and least developed countries. this contributes to fair and free trade and the alleviation of poverty. this particular resolution deals with the state of play of the doha development agenda in view of the 10th wto ministerial conference which will take place in kenya in december. along with my group i am glad that the resolution gives full commitment to the enduring value of multilateralism, respect for special and differential treatment in the negotiations and support for a structural reform of the wto. the resolution also insists that the eu should continue to play a leading role in wto negotiations, that parliament continues to be closely involved and on strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the wto. negotiations should also consider the special needs of low-income developing countries. in view of these considerations i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this resolution on the doha development agenda as it stresses the union’s support for a thorough reform of the wto, in order to better guarantee a transparent, fair and open trading system that better incorporates the full scale of participants in the global economy.
in writing. ‒ the doha development agenda, with a view to the 10th wto ministerial conference of the doha round, was launched in 2001 with the objectives of creating new trading opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current imbalances in the trading system by focusing on the needs and interests of developing countries and especially of the least developed countries. this contributes to fair and free trade at the service of the economic development of all continents and the alleviation of poverty. i am in agreement with the state of play of the doha development agenda with a view to the 10th wto ministerial conference and that is why i have voted in favour of this report
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i welcome the negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru, which i believe will be beneficial to ecuador’s export markets.
in writing. ‒ in june 2012 the eu signed an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement with colombia and peru. once fully implemented, it will open up markets as well as increase the stability and predictability of the trading environment. the eu needs to ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding roadmap on human, environmental and labour rights, and that the colombian and peruvian governments are requested to report on the implementation of action plans on sustainable development prior to the consent given by this parliament. the commission should inform parliament about its developments and should submit a report focusing on the implementation of the action plans by the governments and the accompanying measures taken.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the accession of ecuador to the eu-peru and colombia trade agreement. eu trade negotiations with the andean community (bolivia, columbia, ecuador and peru) started in 2007. the agreement with peru and colombia was concluded in 2012. as the council considered this to be a ʽmixed agreementʼ, it needs also to be ratified by all eu member states; this process is currently ongoing. this would be another decisive step forward in the alliance with important, fast-growing countries. i welcome this agreement, which will boost and diversify trade and investment on both sides. by voting in favour of this report i also supported the call for an action plan on social and environment rights in line with those already agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because ecuador should be entitled to benefit from the full range of agreements and associations that the other countries in the region are a part of.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i am in agreement with the accession of ecuador to the eu-peru and columbia trade agreement. eu trade negotiations with the andean community (bolivia, columbia, ecuador and peru) started in 2007. peru/colombia was concluded in 2012. as the council considered this to be a ‘mixed agreement’, it needs also to be ratified by all eu member states and this process is currently ongoing. negotiations with ecuador were concluded in july 2014 to join the eu multi-party free trade agreement with peru/colombia. the agreement was initialled on 12 december 2014. although no longer a gsp+ beneficiary country as of 1 january 2015, ecuador enjoys temporarily current tariff treatment on a reciprocal basis following the adoption of the tariff stand-still regulation at the end of 2014 by parliament and the council until the eu-peru/colombia free trade agreement applies also to ecuador according to the terms negotiated for its accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteurs in urging the commission to implement the european union strategy on the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 and legislative framework that covers all animal categories.
in writing. ‒ over the past 40 years, eu animal welfare legislation has evolved on the basis of sound scientific knowledge, improving the quality of animals’ lives in accordance with citizens’ expectations. the commission should draw up a new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the 2016-2020 period so as to ensure further positive developments in eu animal welfare policy.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the proposal of a new animal welfare strategy for the years 2016-2020. it urges the commission to implement, without delay, the points outstanding from the european union strategy on the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. it also urges the commission to evaluate the existing strategy and to draw up a new and ambitious strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the 2016-2020 period in order to build on the work of the previous strategy and ensure the continuation of a framework for delivering high animal-welfare standards across the member states. i believe that through such an updated policy we would not only be protecting our pets and animals closer to home but we will also be protecting all living beings and thus protecting our ecosystems and our planet. hence i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to emphasise the commission’s need to implement the outstanding elements from the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 as well as drawing up a new strategy for the coming years so that we may ensure the continuation of high animal welfare standards across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 since the present strategy on animal welfare ends this year and the commission should implement, without delay, the outstanding points from the current strategy and present a new one that would be beneficial not only for the animals, but also for eu citizens that have a strong interest in animal welfare. animals should not be abused and should be treated with dignity and respect. we have the obligation to speak for those who have no voice. that is why i voted in favour of this extremely important resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i understand that education is a key for development that can help children to earn potential in order to escape from a poverty cycle. europe needs to help the most vulnerable to ensure that a poverty cycle does not grow.
in writing. ‒ education during emergencies and crisis situations is the most underfunded sector. children, adolescents and young people face increasing threats and are disproportionally affected in the event of crisis. out-of-school children face a higher risk of early marriage and pregnancy, recruitment into terrorist groups, and being trafficked and they face labour exploitation. we need to bridge the gap and improve the future prospects of children through humanitarian aid and development cooperation measures. paragraph 25 highlights the need to bring together private investments and public finances in vocational and educational training (vet). this is needed also in developed countries. the gue amendment is also true but not to the exclusion of the original text.
in writing. ‒ millions of children around the world are being deprived of an equal shot at life because of conflict, poverty, protracted crises, lack of education and natural disasters. this resolution stresses the importance of universal high-quality public education as a catalyst for development, which improves prospects in the areas of health, sanitation, disaster risk reduction, job creation, poverty reduction and economic development. it also highlights education’s role as a powerful tool that is necessary in order to give a sense of normality, to raise awareness of rights and to help children overcome trauma, reintegrate themselves after conflicts, and acquire the skills needed to rebuild their societies and promote reconciliation. it calls on the commission and the member states to establish ‘education corridors’ to ensure that students from countries in conflict, in particular syria, iraq and eritrea, are accepted in universities. it also calls for the eu to include education in the whole emergency-response cycle. it is through such initiatives and actions that we can really start changing the destiny of these individuals. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it seeks to ensure that a child’s education will remain a priority even during cases of humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on education for children in emergency situations and protracted crises, which stresses the importance of universal high-quality public education as a catalyst for development, which improves the prospects of other interventions in the areas of health, sanitation, disaster-risk reduction, job creation, poverty reduction and economic development. education’s role is as a powerful tool that is necessary in order to give a sense of normality, to raise awareness of rights and to help children, adolescents, and young people overcome trauma, reintegrate themselves into society in the aftermath of conflicts, and acquire the skills needed to rebuild their societies and promote peace-building and reconciliation. that is why i have voted in favour of this important report
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i think the commission should introduce guidelines on simplifications for member states to be aware of their tasks, and provide them with information for simplifying control, monitoring, reporting activities and beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ cities and urban areas should play a stronger role in cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period. initiatives and guidelines relating to simplification, based on best practice and the recommendations of the high-level group, need to be shared with member states and regions in order to stimulate a reduction in administrative burden and to make our cohesion policy more effective both at eu and national level. we need a structured and permanent dialogue with parliament, the committee of the regions and other stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the resolution highlights that the commission should introduce detailed guidelines on simplification in order to make the member states and their regions aware of their task of eliminating, or at least significantly reducing, the administrative burden and gold-plating arising at national and local level in the processes of procurement, project proposal selection, and monitoring and control activities, including avoiding frequent changes in rules, simplifying language and standardising procedures, as well as focusing the eu budget on tangible results. as i am completely in favour of facilitating such processes for our citizens and those involved i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it highlights the need for the commission to put a strategy in place to lift the administrative burden on member states. due to regional differences within the european union and within member states the effectiveness of the cohesion policy may be asymmetric due to these different regional characteristics. this resolution strives to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy in the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on simplification and performance orientation in cohesion policy 2014-2020 because i agree that the commission should introduce detailed guidelines on simplification in order to make the member states and their regions aware of their task of eliminating, or at least significantly reducing, the administrative burden and gold-plating arising at national and local levels in the processes of procurement, project proposal selection, and monitoring and control activities, including avoiding frequent changes in rules, simplifying language and standardising procedures, as well as focusing the eu budget on tangible results.
the rapporteur. i would like to start by thanking my colleague ska keller and all the other shadow rapporteurs for the good collaboration we had when we came to discuss this report together on, as you have just said, the european ombudsman's special report on frontex. at committee level we reached a broad consensus that frontex can ensure that fundamental rights are safeguarded also by setting up a mechanism for individual complaints. yesterday we also learned that the commission itself will include this mechanism in the revision of the frontex regulation due to be published in the coming days. specifically, this report includes clear references supporting the work of frontex to carry out the recommendations of the european ombudsman himself. among others, the agency has put in place an incident reporting system. a consultative forum specifically on fundamental rights is created. an office for fundamental rights has also been set up within the agency, but it is still independent of the frontex structure. this report does not in any way affect the principle of subsidiarity and the distinct competences of the european union and its member states in these areas. this report also makes specific references to the fact that frontex has no competence to initiate disciplinary measures against persons other than its own officials. there are further references to the fact that the frontex regulation makes it clear that taking disciplinary action falls under the exclusive competence of the home member state. however, we are of the opinion that the establishment of an individual complaints mechanism will provide a means for persons to exercise their right to more effective redress. this will ensure that frontex and the european institutions and bodies are more aware of possible violations of fundamental rights. and that was very important to us. this report also highlights the need for legal safeguards to ensure that only concrete elements and substances are allowed. we also call on the european commission and the member states to allocate additional resources to frontex so that the fundamental rights office can deal with these complaints itself. and so, madam president, i am looking forward to the fact that just as we have achieved agreement at committee level with such a large majority, we will now also be able to achieve the same kind of agreement at plenary level. i think we have a balanced report and i look forward to your support.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, first of all thank you for having considered this special report of the european ombudsman on frontex and for your follow-up on this very same report. i am aware of the main concern expressed in favour of an individual complaint mechanism in frontex, and i took good note of the joint report recommending the inclusion of such provisions. the commission will take the suggestions made in the report into account in its proposal for the future european border guard, which it will present later this month. we agree that the fundamental rights officer could be given a crucial role in handling complaints covering all personnel directly involved in frontex operations. the nature and the scope of such a mechanism will certainly be a subject for discussion in both parliament and the council. it is my intention to provide for a mechanism whereby the fundamental rights officer, as suggested by the co-rapporteurs, could receive complaints in a structural manner and whereby the appropriate workflows would be established for onward referral to the member states concerned, and information subsequently obtained about the outcome of the investigation. on the one hand, this should be an administrative mechanism which would allow frontex to maintain a degree of transparency and accountability, rendering its actions more credible towards the outside and also providing it with the means to deal with these issues internally. but at the same time this is also a fundamental rights tool, because we cannot forget that we are talking about people and ensuring that they are treated in a dignified way. that is why i believe that such a mechanism could be helpful for the credibility of european external borders support operations. at a time when common external border management and shared responsibility are even more important in rendering the european union’s migration and asylum policy more effective, we must also make sure that we are not a ‘fortress europe’. more security goes hand in hand with a stronger and efficient protection mechanism of the fundamental rights of people. this exchange is extremely timely and i welcome the cross-party support for your report. be assured that we are working to turn your proposals into concrete suggestions in the future legislation. i would like in particular to express my thanks to the two co-rapporteurs, roberta metsola and ska keller, for their excellent work and their help in our endeavours.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to begin by thanking the co-rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for the way we have worked on this report. in the circumstances we are living in today the european union must indeed strengthen its work to secure its external borders. but if the european union is to remain a union of common values, human rights and mutual respect, we must recognise that any security measure must be complemented by safeguards for fundamental human rights. the key to achieving this balance is simple. we must recognize that a do-nothing attitude does not work and neither does the mentality of a military state. such mentalities not only undermine the basic values of the european union but destroy everything we have worked for. based on these considerations, i am satisfied that we have managed to secure a mechanism to ensure that allegations of human rights violations are investigated in the most transparent and accountable manner possible, while including safeguards that offer an opportunity for justified complainants to do so without fear of reprisal. the message to be conveyed is clear: human rights are sacrosanct and non-negotiable and security must also be at the top of our agenda. commissioner avramopolous, it is gratifying to hear you say that you will include this aspect in the european border guard package that must be implemented because it is our duty to protect the principles we believe in.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like, once again, to express my thanks for your fruitful contribution to this debate. the commission has paid – and will continue to pay – great attention to your special report about the need for an individual complaint mechanism in frontex. as i have said, your work on this matter could not have come at a more timely moment. as you know, i will soon be tabling the promised proposal for the future european border guards. i will obviously take into account the suggestions made in the report.
rapporteur.– madam president, in my introduction i failed to thank both frontex and the european ombudsman. if it were not for the european ombudsman, we would not be here today discussing a recommendation to ultimately make such an important agency for our union better. for those colleagues who are questioning the timeliness of this, i want to thank you, commissioner, for accepting and listening to us, and we look forward very much to the upcoming review of the frontex regulation. this is why we chose – and we also thank the colleagues in this room – to accept an accelerated procedure for the adoption of this report today. there is a legal mandate for frontex to make sure that fundamental rights are observed in all its activities, and what this report seeks to do is to properly institute the possibility for a person submitting a complaint to make sure that the complaint is actually received. what happens today is that external complaints are not transmitted properly to member states, with the result that you can have vulnerable persons whose fundamental rights may have been breached during a frontex operation. what this report says is that such complaints should be admissible. this report also says that this should not prejudice frontex’s operations and its prerogatives to save lives. of course, this should not in any way jeopardise frontex’s aim of ensuring the secure and effective management of our border controls. this report, in my opinion, is perfectly in sync with what parliament feels this important agency should be doing. we now leave it up to frontex – as my colleague ska keller said – and we hope such a mechanism is instituted as soon as possible, because it will make such an important agency operate more efficiently and better in line with its mandate.
in writing.– the european year for development 2015 was a key opportunity to raise awareness on the importance of development policy across europe. in this year the millennium development goals are to be reviewed and new targets to be set up. this policy is of utmost importance as it can help us address major challenges like terrorism and migration and poverty. conflicts within countries and the lack of opportunities for people are common root causes of these challenges and they must be addressed without delay. people who are still living in poverty deprived of healthcare, education and living standards, in conflict-affected and fragile states, are the most hit, and development policy is the only way to ensure effective and innovative cooperation. we need the highest level of coordination in order to achieve coherence with all affected policy areas like environment, international trade, human rights, agriculture, and to ensure consistency in development activities.
mr president, i share my colleagues’ disappointment in regard to my very own country, malta. the current situation represents clearly that member states are not ready to walk the talk on gender equality. an electoral promise of having the most feminist government has actually decreased the number of female participants in leadership positions. while in the european pact for gender equality the council acknowledged that gender equality policies are vital to economic growth, prosperity and competitiveness, yet this proposal which deals only with a very specific commercial structure and only with non-executive positions still today does not seem to have the backing of member states. it seems that, even in the council, member states are not willing to walk the talk on gender equality. member states fail to see the need to reap from their investment in education the aspirations as well as the capabilities of women. no one today can use the excuse that there are no qualified women, nor can they argue that society is against gender equality. even in malta more female meps were elected to this parliament than male candidates. this is not a debate on favouring women because they are less capable than men, but about giving equal chances to qualified women as much as to men. non-binding measures have proved insufficient. we do not want to create bureaucracy for these entities but we do need to ensure that this public and social responsibility is taken seriously.
in writing.– i support the proposed ‘women-on-boards directive’ not only for economic reasons. it does not make sense for any corporation to utilise in its production only half of the machines it has available. this applies for mechanical as well as for human ‘machines’. women were excluded from operational and decision-making posts for ideological reasons. these acted as barriers to entry that inhibited the full development of productive potential in societies, firms and governments. quotas were the tool to overcome this barrier. once equality of gender opportunity and its effective implementation are ensured, chances for an improvement in productivity are improved. gender quotas automatically become archive material. they have been effective at operational level. they will be equally so for executive, decision-making positions. i speak from experience. in the malta labour party, we introduced quotas for women in elections to the general conference and the national executive. within fifteen years, quotas were no longer needed. gender parity was being automatically achieved, via the ‘normal’ electoral process for these institutions. there was a clear improvement in their functioning. however we did not introduce quotas in the party bureau, which was a mistake. dominated by men, its effectiveness remained open to question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision so that the new committee can analyse, examine and assess any harmful corporate tax regimes as well as whether the member states and the eu institutions follow our taxation law and apply the state aid. the committee should also continue to work on any issues unresolved by the previous committee, whilst always respecting the concept of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on tax rulings can play an important role in fostering tax transparency and the fight against tax fraud, but the committee’s mandate should respect the principle of subsidiarity, so different measures like the corporate tax base must remain an issue of national competence since they reflect the different challenges of the economies of member states. these challenges include their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending a new, broader mandate for the special committee in the european parliament which investigates tax avoidance across europe. greater tax transparency is greatly supported particularly when it comes to how people’s money is being spent. however, i must reiterate that i am against cctb which would destroy the economies of smaller member states on the periphery of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature as it will increase the level of transparency and combat cross-border tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of the special committee taxe ii, under rule 197 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the special committee has been established for six months to fully build on and complete the work carried out by the taxe i special committee, in particular to address unresolved issues on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect and to access relevant documents for its work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision so that the new committee can analyse, examine and assess any harmful corporate tax regimes as well as whether the member states as well the eu institutions follow our taxation law and apply the state aid. the new committee should also continue to work on any issues unresolved by the previous committee.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on tax rulings can play an important role in fostering tax transparency and the fight against tax fraud, but the committee’s mandate should respect the principle of subsidiarity so that different measures like the corporate tax base must remain an issue of national competence since they reflect the different challenges of the economies of member states. these challenges include their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of a special committee on tax rulings as it will increase the level of transparency and combat cross-border tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings established for six months, as its composition should be identical to taxe i. the taxe ii special committee will build on and complete the work carried out by the taxe i committee, therefore in my opinion it is only logical that the composition of both committees is the same.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because our 2014 agreements with liechtenstein needed to be upgraded in line with the latest world developments so that we can continue our effective cooperation in the field of taxation. these will continue to help us combat tax evasion and fraud.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of the savings directive, and in order to preserve the level playing field of economic operators, the eu signed agreements with liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive. the commission adopted a recommendation for a mandate to initiate negotiations with liechtenstein in order to upgrade the eu’s agreements in line with international developments and to ensure that these countries continue to apply measures equivalent to those in the eu. this report approves the conclusion of the agreement, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the agreement signed between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that liechtenstein applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income. while i reiterate my personal and malta’s position against any attempts at tax harmonisation i am fully committed to clamp down on any potential tax fraud. international co-operation is a key to such a fight and therefore i fully support this new agreement and voted in favour of this report in parliament.
in writing. ‒ following on from the commission’s recommendations i chose to support this report as it consents to the conclusion of the council’s agreement on behalf of the eu with the principality of liechtenstein.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the agreement aims at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. under the agreement, the eu and liechtenstein will be obliged to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2017. this agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion which will help to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because frontex needs its own complaints mechanism to prevent any breaches of human rights. this will strengthen the agency but at the same time will not affect the powers of member states, in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ in view of the humanitarian and legal challenges of migration and the situation at the eu’s external borders, parliament supports the recommendations of the european ombudsman, so that frontex deals with complaints regarding infringements of fundamental rights in the course of its operations. these new competences will lead to changes in the frontex fundamental rights strategy. although setting up the new fundamental rights protection mechanism and structure comes under the competence of frontex, necessary legal safeguards needed to be introduced in this report so as to ensure that only relevant complaints on infringements of fundamental rights are submitted to frontex.
in writing. ‒ as the s&d shadow rapporteur on this report i am glad that this report is a solid achievement for the s&d group, as parliament has adopted the s&d calls for stronger fundamental rights safeguards for all. these include: the establishment of a system where third parties can make complaints on behalf of migrants who prefer to remain anonymous out of fear; a call which obligates frontex to report on fundamental rights complaints in the frontex annual report; better cooperation with third countries; and strong assurances that such a mechanism will not hinder life-saving operations or return decisions. our message was clear: now more than ever is it time that the eu ups its game in the field of security and external borders, but these must go hand in hand with, and be complemented by, human and fundamental rights safeguards.
in writing. ‒ as co-rapporteur of this report i felt that a very balanced report was negotiated. this report calls for the setting up of an individual complaints mechanism by frontex which will provide an avenue for people to exercise their right to a more effective remedy. it means that frontex and the eu institutions and bodies are more aware of any possible violations of fundamental rights that could otherwise remain undetected, unreported or unresolved and so i chose to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report supporting the recommendation by the european ombudsman that frontex should deal with complaints regarding infringements of fundamental rights in the course of its operations and should provide adequate administrative support for that purpose. the report also calls on frontex to set up an independent complaints mechanism. in light of the growing migratory flows and expanding capacity of frontex, i am in favour of the creation of such a complaint mechanism which will help migrants to complain when it comes to alleged breaches of their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it outlines measures which will help us achieve our resource efficiency and sustainable development objectives. today most of our mobility is still based on cars despite all the steps that have already been taken to reduce this. we need to keep working on making our transport systems more intelligent and efficient.
in writing. ‒ many european countries have to cope with ineffective and costly urban transport infrastructure. in order to develop and maintain sustainable urban mobility, we need to dedicate a part of eu funds and cohesion funds to this. this plays an important role to achieve the eu’s resource-efficiency objectives, in particular those linked to the circular economy. the sustainable urban mobility concept does not represent a one-size-fits-all approach to urban transport planning. we need effective support from the commission for urban transport research and innovation projects mentioned in the report, through research framework programmes like horizon 2020 and the european fund for strategic investment.
in writing. ‒ this report is the follow-up of the commission communication on urban mobility which encourages best practice exchanges and guidance for tackling urban mobility challenges. the report calls for supporting and promoting walking and cycling, sustainable urban mobility for workers who live far away from their workplace, reducing carbon emissions from transport in urban areas, and enhancing road safety in urban areas. over the last months i have made it clear that i stand by our citizens’ aspiration for a healthier environment and lifestyle. governments, city administrations and all other authorities involved need to up their game in helping our citizens towards such aspiration and a better quality of life, hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it suggests strategies for sustainable urban development in terms of transport infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ sustainable urban mobility is a key to boost the social and economic conditions in cities whilst preventing growing inequalities and to fight against climate change. cities are the drivers of growth and economic activity, generating over 80% of eu gdp, but they are also often unequal places, with extreme divisions and with inadequate attention given to the needs of disabled people, the elderly and others who are vulnerable. therefore, i fully support the report which in my opinion provides valuable recommendations for the improvement of future sustainable urban areas.
in writing. ‒ over 80 percent of europe’s populations live in urban centres. they are plagued by traffic congestion, long commuting times, environmental pollution and inefficient public transport. worthy efforts continue to overcome the growing problems. many fail. given the present context, where privatisation, public-private partnerships and market-based solutions are considered essential elements in a ‘holistic’ solution, problems will surely multiply not decrease. the emphasis should be on public, not private solutions. still, state investment in urban public transport systems has not kept pace with needs. moreover, modernising public transport has been confused with privatising, when the real need was to modernise the public management of transport systems. generally, there is little impetus in favour of a long-term plan. through major public investments, it would create new infrastructures for mass urban transport. its control and strategic direction would be retained by public authorities, operating not for profit but to serve a public purpose. as a general rule, public transport systems run as if they were private entities cannot solve satisfactorily the large scale problems of urban mobility. at national level, free market ideological dogma obscures this reality. perhaps it can be countered at a european level, but i doubt it.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the members for their very interesting speeches. let me make one small clarification, however: some members have suggested that in developing the energy union the commission was encroaching on the competences of the member states. nothing could be further from the truth, mr president. it was the european council that asked the commission to put in place all the rules to guarantee the european union security of energy supply, sustainable energy production and energy at competitive prices. let us not be mistaken, we have two problems of security of supply: on the one hand, we are very dependent on single suppliers in the gas sector - and that is why the european commission has supported the southern corridor - and on the other hand, there is the whole construction of interconnections in the eastern mediterranean, in the baltic countries... we are also trying to connect the iberian peninsula to the gas markets... and that is why the european council set political targets - we have said in this house - of 10% and 15% on the electricity markets. it is impossible to develop an internal market without physical interconnections. then there is a lot more to do: harmonizing energy pricing systems, supporting renewable energy systems; enormous harmonization and integration to be done. but one thing is clear: when there is regional integration, competition increases and consumers benefit. when there are no connections, we rely on external suppliers and are priced from outside. that is why, in addition to interconnections, the commission wants to launch a liquefied natural gas strategy on the gas market, so that there are other alternative sources. and that's why in the electricity market we work on two fronts: improving interconnections, but also redesigning the electricity market so that we have smart grids, efficient interconnection systems, more harmonized pricing systems, and we can go from having 28 differentiated electricity markets to aspiring, in a first phase, to a more powerful regional integration and, in the end, to a definitive integration. but, in addition to this process of developing the energy union, we are in the midst of a major global climate agreement, for which the european union has presented the most ambitious targets, both for greenhouse gas reduction and for energy efficiency and renewables. but those are the objectives we have today. in paris we have designed a system to raise our ambition level progressively; today we are on a path not to two degrees but to three degrees. so in 2018 we will jointly assess where we are and in 2020 all parties to the convention will be asked to say whether they are increasing their level of ambition or confirming their existing one. and in 2023, we'll repeat this exercise again. but there is one fact that is crystal clear. all the countries of the world are moving in the same direction: more development of renewable energy, greater energy efficiency and better management of their forest masses. and that is an unstoppable process. what the commission wants is to prepare the european union for this process, with the best legislation, with the greatest ambition. we have to get our prices to stop being twice as high as our competitors' electricity prices, or triple their gas prices. the commission will spare no effort to do so. that's why, and so that we can be a reliable part of this great paris agreement that meets its commitment to reduction, that improves its energy competitiveness and that has a market where consumers benefit. and, of course, to tackle the issue of energy poverty.
in writing.– the energy union is a recognition of the fact that we require a collective and coherent response which ensures energy security and climate and economic resilience by investing more in low-carbon infrastructure and new technologies. europe’s energy and climate strategies must be complementary to one another and not contradictory. we need to attack emissions not energy production. we need to be realistic. whilst having a strategy to phase out polluting technologies we need to keep in mind that many of our member states require a transitory period to reach our ultimate aim of having energy produced from renewables. in this regard lng can be the perfect complement to renewables. this fits in with our goal of having a resilient energy union with an ambitious climate policy that gives consumers – households and businesses – secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
mr president, the area of management structures built for the eurozone in the past years is impressive, though still incomplete. all of it was set up in fire-fighting mode, with the eu leaders doing their best to contain crisis after crisis. the same happened this year, with successive crises occurring on a wider front than that covered by the euro narrative. the fire-fighting has been successful. the collateral social costs have been high, but the structures set up under the stability and growth pact might reflect too much the contingencies surrounding the euro crisis of that past. they are probably sufficient now to protect the euro from a recurrence of a crisis like that of 2008. will they be adequate to face up to the challenges of the future, and to a new kind of crisis? today's challenges arise from economic fragility and stagnation, from lack of job creation and competitiveness, and from low public and private investment. success in dealing with them has been very limited. as we follow the liturgy of the european semester, has the time also come to reflect radically on the design of the economic and monetary union? do we need to think outside the box? not to undermine the achievements, but to update them? as we bemoan the lack of competitiveness, could it be that the design of the stability and growth pact itself inhibits competitiveness. why with more europe, as this has been hesitantly implemented, have we failed to achieve higher competitiveness and higher investment? is the setting up of new bureaucratic councils to preach about competitiveness really the right answer? do we need a revision of the stability and growth pact? perhaps, beyond the consolidation of existing management structures, we need a root and branch appraisal of how emu has developed up to now.
in writing. – switzerland has agreed to participate voluntarily in the eu resettlement and both the eu relocation programmes. so far switzerland informally participates in easo activities; putting in place this working arrangement will allow both easo and switzerland to formalise the collaboration. this agreement was postponed after the results of the referendum in switzerland. the arrangement should now be approved on behalf of the eu, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, whose purpose is to conclude the arrangement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the proposal provides for switzerland’ full participation in the activities of the support office and representation in its management board as an observer, without voting rights. it will also result in an annual financial contribution from switzerland to the budget of the support office.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation was aimed at strengthening the european asylum support office (easo) and allowing formal cooperation between the agency and switzerland. as rapporteur for the report i was happy to show my support.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent on the arrangement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the purpose of this proposal is to conclude the arrangement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easo). this will enhance practical cooperation between member states and switzerland on asylum matters and in the current crisis it is an important priority for member states to cooperate more closely on asylum matters.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with dominica on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the negotiation of the commission with dominica on a short-stay visa waiver that provides visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to the commonwealth of dominica for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. for all these reasons i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of dominica when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-dominica agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which will provide visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica – which is politically highly significant an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with vanuatu on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is on the negotiation of the commission with vanuatu on a short-stay visa waiver which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to the republic of vanuatu for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of vanuatu when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-vanuatu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which will provide for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu – which is politically highly significant as an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with trinidad and tobago on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the negotiation of the commission with trinidad and tobago on a short-stay visa waiver which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to trinidad and tobago for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and trinidad and tobago – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of trinidad and tobago when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-trinidad and tobago agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of this territory when travelling to republic of trinidad and tobago for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with samoa on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the negotiation of the commission with samoa on a short-stay visa waiver. this agreement represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and samoa – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of samoa when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the eu-samoa agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which will provide new visa regime for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring people on both sides closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with grenada on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of grenada when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is about the negotiation of the commission with grenada on a short-stay visa waiver. this agreement represents the deepening relations between the european union and grenada – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of grenada when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the eu-grenada agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which will provide new visa regime for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring people on both sides closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with timor-leste on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that is about the negotiation by the commission with timor-leste on a short-stay visa waiver which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and timor-leste – which is politically highly significant.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the eu- timor-leste agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement was negotiated by the commission on behalf of the eu with the democratic republic of timor-leste and will provide new visa regime for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring people on both sides closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with saint lucia on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is about the negotiations between the commission and saint lucia on a short-stay visa waiver. this step is politically significant including an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint lucia when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the eu- saint lucia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement was negotiated by the commission on behalf of the eu with the with saint lucia and will provide new visa regime for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring people on both sides closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the eu-saint vincent and the grenadines agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which will provide a new visa regime for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring people on both sides closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. – the purpose of the proposal on the visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement with the united arab emirates on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the united arab emirates when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on the negotiations carried out by the commission with united arab emirates on a short-stay visa waiver. the visa waiver agreement must be viewed in a wider context as a tool for intensifying cooperation, in which context both parties have a shared interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in combating terrorism, trafficking in persons and climate change.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of united arab emirates when travelling in the other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i chose to support this resolution as it is an opportunity to deepen economic relations and develop tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-united arab emirates agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which will provide for visa-free travel for citizens when travelling for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates – which is politically highly significant an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. european citizens will not only be able to fully benefit from the partnership between the european union and the united arab emirates, but also participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost.
in writing. – the memorandum of understanding is a specific implementing measure, to be adopted by the council with the parliament being consulted, under provisions which were in force before the lisbon treaty. the purpose of this proposal is to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates. eurojust and ohim want to develop strategic cooperation that could help them to achieve their objective in the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights. cooperation between eu agencies is the key to a more efficient europe, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report in question gives its approval to a memorandum of understanding (mou) between the office for harmonisation in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust which formalises an understanding between both sides in order to foster better cooperation in compliance with their respective mandates to help combat the fight against serious crime. the understanding in question has strong data protection safeguards and also ensures that the application of the mou stays strictly between eurojust and ohim. as this report aims at cutting down on bureaucracy in the fight against serious crime i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this draft implementing decision reinforces conclusions by eurojust about the memorandum of understanding (mou) between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust. this draft decision will solidify the agreement made by eurojust and ohim to further develop their cooperative strategies. following on from the council’s support, i chose to support this draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the memorandum of understanding (mou) between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the mou is to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates.
in writing. – this proposal on the methods and procedures for making available own resources by member states is part of the new legislative package on own resources (or) that will enter into force in the beginning of 2016. this is largely a technical regulation that contains practical arrangements on issues like the establishment of traditional own resources, conservation of supporting documents, the applicable rate for the gni-based own resource, the timing for making them available and for making adjustments and provisions concerning cash management and irrecoverable amounts. i support the proposal with special regards to the streamlining of the currently very complicated procedures for adjusting the vat and gni own resources for prior years. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with methods and procedure for making available the traditional, vat and gross national income based own resources and with the measures to meet cash requirements. the commission aims to avoid any problematic situation linked to technical recalculations. for example at the end of 2014, due to the re-calculation, the uk and other member states needed to provide additional resources to the eu budget, which led to an intense discussion within the council. i voted in favour of this report as it is meant to avoid internal frictions, and i also supported the streamlining of the currently very complicated procedures for adjusting the vat and gni own resources for prior years.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution and the commission proposal as it is essential that timely financial contributions are made by member states to facilitate the effective management of its treasury.
in writing. ‒ with some reservation, i voted in favour of the report on methods for making available own resources and measures to meet cash requirements, which deals with the rules on making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. the report contains arrangements in respect of the establishment of traditional own resources, conservation of supporting documents and administrative cooperation, and provisions concerning cash management and irrecoverable amounts.
in writing. – parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos.
in writing. – parliamentary immunity is not a member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. the case in question does not have a direct and obvious connection with the member’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7. i thus voted in favour of the report to waive the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou.
in writing. – in recent years the distribution of ict sector employment between the european union and other economies has developed to the detriment of the eu. the events giving rise to these redundancies are the developments affecting nokia in recent years, which have had a major impact on the ict sector in finland. the ict sector used to employ thousands of finnish people, while now these functions have been transferred to countries outside europe. the european globalisation fund measures recommended will seek the reintegration of redundant workers into employment through occupational guidance, training, retraining and job search. i thus voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with a specific european globalisation adjustment fund application in finland following 1 603 redundancies in the computer programming sector. funding will aid 1 200 persons who were made redundant to find employment through various measures including re-training. i believe that workers who become redundant due to global economic trends, which they have no control over, need to be given the help they require to find alternative employment as soon as possible. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 1 200 workers in the computer programming sector in finland due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund 2015/005 computer programming, from finland. the redundancies were caused by the major structural changes in the electronics industry. the application relates to 1 603 redundancies in 69 enterprises operating in the area of computer programming/consultancy in several finnish regions. the egf funding of eur 2 623 200 will contribute to helping around 1 200 redundant workers via different types of measures such as coaching, employment and business services, training, subsidies, start-up grants, etc.
in writing. – the main objective of the proposal is to foster innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. the revision of the regulation aims to adapt the terminology of the lisbon treaty, to streamline procedures to apply for and register a european trademark. this is an important measure to increase legal certainty by clarifying provisions, to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between ohim and national offices and to develop common protection tools. our common goal is to establish an effective trademark system making the registrations accessible to smes and start-ups as well. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report in question approves the council’s reading on the changes being proposed to the eu’s community trade mark regulation, which represents the only current legal instrument in terms of intellectual property rights that are managed at eu level. the most notable changes include changing references to ‘community trademarks’ into ‘european trade marks’ and changing ‘the office for harmonisation in the internal market’ (ohim) to ‘european union intellectual property agency’. the revision also gives more clarity in terms of criteria for protectable marks, widening the definition, and takes measures against ordering and sale of counterfeit goods, notably via the internet. as these changes further safeguard intellectual property rights i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as its main objective is to foster innovation and economic growth by cutting bureaucracy and red tape in relation to trademark registration systems all over the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trade mark, because in my opinion this legislation aims at fostering innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. the system is already in place, but with the current modernisation it will be better functional. the revision of the regulation aims to adapt the terminology, to streamline procedures to apply for and register a european trademark, to increase legal certainty by clarifying provisions, to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between ohim and national offices for developing common tools, and to align the framework to art 290 tfeu. the trade marks package represents a key legal tool in order to fight against counterfeiting of products, preserve public health, safety and jobs, as well as defending fundamental rights.
in writing. – the national laws of the member states relating to trademarks were partially harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of this recast directive is to modernise and improve the existing provisions of the current directive by amending outdated provisions, increasing legal certainty and clarifying trademarks rights in terms of scope and limitations and by facilitating cooperation between national trademark offices and the ohim. a coherent trademark protection at eu level is an important tool to foster innovation, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with a directive about laws of member states relating to trade marks. it is meant to complement the community trade mark regulation, by harmonising national rules on trade marks. in order to harmonise eu and national trade mark systems, the provisions of eu trade marks will also apply to national trade marks. the main objective of the proposal is to foster innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. these are all measures that further protect trade marks and foster innovation, which i am all in favour of, hence i supported the outcome of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it follows on from commission directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec where member state laws were partially harmonised in relation to trademarks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the final agreement reached on the laws of the member states relating to trade marks (recast directive), which is meant to complement the community trade mark regulation, by harmonising national rules on trade marks. the main objective of the proposal is to foster innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient.
in writing. – the eu is a contracting party of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in north east atlantic fisheries. this scheme proposes a better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the area of the northeast atlantic, bringing lasting results under environmental and social aspects, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report in question gives parliament’s recommendations on the commission’s proposal on the convention on future cooperation in north-east atlantic fisheries. during its annual meeting in march, the north east atlantic fisheries commission adopted a number of recommendations. these included amendments on communication of transhipments and of port of landing, on the infringement procedures and on port state control of foreign fishing vessels. through this report such recommendations will become eu law. i believe that such changes will make for a better system and hence i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the eu has promised to ensure that the long-term conservation and optimal use of marine resources will be implemented in the north east atlantic. i chose to support this proposal as it seeks to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 to incorporate it into union law ensuring sustainable, environmental and social aspects are looked at in fisheries policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the scheme of control and enforcement applicable in the north-east atlantic fisheries, which seeks to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 in order to incorporate neafc (north-east atlantic fisheries commission) recommendations 15/2013 and 9/2014 as amended by recommendation 12/2015, which have become binding on the contracting parties to neafc and consequently on the eu.
in writing. – the eu treaty provides that the union's action on the international stage must be guided by the principles which have inspired its own creation, development and enlargement, and which it seeks to advance in the wider world, including democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity. the eu must respect and promote those principles in its external action as well, including its common commercial policy. suspending exceptional trade measures can ensure that swift action can be taken in the event of serious and systemic violations of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the eu needs to remain committed to supporting bosnia and herzegovina's european prospects and looks to the political leadership of the country to pursue reforms aimed at promoting functional institutions as well as ensuring equal rights for all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the preferential trade regime currently in place between the european union and the western balkans has resulted in an increase in exports from the western balkans to the eu. a further five-year extension of the autonomous trade measures confirms the eu’s commitment to the future european integration of the western balkans. it is crucial that we view the suspension of this agreement with bosnia and herzegovina as an incentive to resolve the ongoing disagreement with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant autonomous trade measures (atms) for the western balkan countries. they are unilateral preferences which allow for unlimited duty-free access to the eu. these atms will expire after december 2015. the commission proposes to extend the atms to the end 2020 for serbia, kosovo, albania, fyrom, montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. – my vote reflects the decision not to divulge unnecessarily sensitive information which could impinge on data protection while focusing on the primary need to strengthen the strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates. this agreement will help in reinforcing the fight against financial fraud and contribution to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ the report in question approves the council draft, which aims to increase cooperation between europol and the uae in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the cooperation excludes the exchange of personal data, and only includes specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. as this report strikes a balance between increased co-operation and safeguarding personal data i had no issues with supporting it in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it aims to ensure that the competent and relevant authorities designated by the united arab emirates and europol share information. this interconnectivity enables border guards to identify people with either fraudulent or no documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol on the condition that agreement will be reviewed once the europol regulation comes into force to check its legality against current standards.
in writing. – the european energy union can ensure that europe has secure, affordable and climate-friendly energy. in this report particular emphasis is put on aspects relating to energy security, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes. it also refers to initiatives necessary to accomplish the completion of the internal energy market, which became of core importance with regard to the outcomes of the paris agreement on climate change. this agreement demonstrates a new global cooperation on climate change with all countries agreeing to progressively ramp up ambition to decarbonise and build climate resilience and gives clarity on direction of travel in the global energy transition. the energy union can serve as an important basis to reach these goals, and thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the parliament's response to the commission's energy union strategy, one of the key political priorities of the juncker commission. the strategy and parliament's report is divided in to the five key dimensions of energy security, a fully-integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness. i have been heavily involved in the legislative process devising the energy union and as i subscribe to the main tenants behind the drive (energy security, access to sustainable energy, addressing energy poverty amongst others) i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes within the eu has become of paramount importance to ensure energy security. i chose to support this report as it looks at addressing these issues as well as putting initiatives in place for the completion of the internal energy market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘towards a european energy union’, which is parliament’s response to the commission energy union strategy, one of the key political priorities of the juncker commission. the strategy and parliament’s report is divided into the five key dimensions of energy security, a fully-integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness. energy union must ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system. i also think that member states’ competences in term of energy trading should be safeguarded, allowing such member states to establish or deepen their relations with third country partners in the field of energy, of course in full compliance and in line with eu legislation.
in writing. – europe needs greater energy security and independence to reduce energy isolation and the possibility of perturbations in the energy system. this proposal recognises the 10% interconnection target as an important step in the right direction. it stresses that interconnectivity is one of the key preconditions for completing the internal electricity market. special attention must be given to projects that address the most significant gaps in the integrated eu electricity market. to reach these goals we need a holistic approach at eu level, as the eu has to ensure accessible electricity market and facilitate a decentralised energy system. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report is in response to a commission communication describing measures needed to meet the agreed target to ensure all member states have in place sufficient electricity interconnectors with neighbouring countries with capacity to export/import at least 10% of their electricity generation capacity. it was a target originally set by eu heads of state and government in 2002 and should be reached by 2020. keeping in mind malta’s issues in relation to access to energy, and also in view of the recent switching on of the malta-sicily interconnector it is in malta’s interest that such an issue keeps on being given priority on an eu level, hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it makes important steps to create interconnectivity in relation to the internal electricity market. it ensures that member states, such as malta, which have not reached the 10% target gain special assistance in addressing the most significant gaps in the integrated eu electricity market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on making europe’s electricity grid fit for 2020, because i believe that the new measures will ensure that europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. – the union’s microfinance facility was created to build on the positive impact microloans have had on local economies in developing countries. in this context, eur 205 million has been made available to boost small businesses. this facility does not directly finance micro-enterprises, but rather enables participating microcredit providers, so-called intermediaries, to increase their lending. this facility helps people to realise their potential as entrepreneurs, develop new skills through training and monitoring, and find jobs. this important facility is aimed at target groups such as the unemployed, those claiming social security benefits and people who cannot get conventional bank loans. this important measure fosters eu objectives in support of innovation, research and development, entrepreneurship, growth, and employment, thus i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it makes funding available for microenterprises, allowing entrepreneurs to create employment, training and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ micro-financing is not only an economic but first and foremost a social policy instrument, therefore i voted in favour of the report on implementation of the european progress microfinance facility due to its focus on vulnerable groups with difficult access to financing and the labour market, which will further contribute to reducing unemployment and social exclusion in europe.
in writing. – my vote in favour of this report is based on the understanding that special consideration should be given to the treatment of the mediterranean as a special case on the basis on recent study on technical measures which omitted the mediterranean from the scope of this regulation being ‘too complex’. this consideration is also based on the livelihood of families who depend on this sector. i reckon that decisions on the minimum conservation reference sizes should be simplified in order to remove any contradiction and/or duplication contained in a clearly structured legal framework and based on solid scientific data.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the reform in the common fisheries policy (cfp). the cfp is a set of rules for managing european fishing fleets and for conserving fish stocks, the policy is based on the idea of a common resource which gives equal access to eu waters and fishing grounds, thus allowing fishermen to compete fairly. the cfp promotes and works towards sustainable fishing, thus safeguarding the fish population and the productivity over the long term. a new structure for technical measures and multiannual plans will ensure the sustainability of the fishing sector and would aid the community to reach its main objectives as stated in the cfp reform. the ep's own-initiative report gives a first idea about its position on the key aspects of a new regulation. as i strongly believe in the importance of sustainable fishing and the harmonisation of the fishing sector i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the new common fishing policy will contribute to the sustainable management of marine resources without burdening the fishing industries of the countries involved as many of the measures are already in place at national level. the report also emphasises that the technical measures are simple and clear so that they can understood by fishermen and so that the fishermen are heavily involved in the decision-making process, especially in regard to the technical measures.
in writing. ‒ with some small reservations, i voted in favour of the report on ‘a new cfp: structure for technical measures and multiannual plans’. technical measures and multiannual plans are among the most important instruments to achieve the objectives of the 2013 cfp reform. the commission will submit its legislative proposal for the new technical measures regulation early next year. this own-initiative report gives a first idea of the european parliament position on the key aspects of the new regulation.
as the european union faces the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war, europe, yes, must rethink its border management policy and put forward ambitious plans. at this moment, more than ever, the european border management agency has a very important role to play. the security threat has revealed a number of shortcomings in the european union and, as pressure is mounting, both at its internal and external borders, instead of uniting, we are becoming more divided. the current system is under great pressure, and strong cooperation in border management is a necessity. we agree that we need to strengthen our external borders, but there are many unanswered questions: questions on the composition, role and functions of this agency. strengthening the mandate of frontex is not enough. we want a system that looks at the long term and addresses the differences that exist between member states' laws and practices while ensuring that it does not fall within the national competences of the member states. at the same time, however, we need a strong system, a system of protection of fundamental human rights, a system of checks and balances, a system that also ensures that easo is included, that we defend data protection, that we protect fundamental rights and that we ensure that the right to lodge complaints is included. we need a balance between security needs and fundamental rights. and so i hope that the european border and coast guard system will succeed in achieving this balance. because if we don't strike the right balance then, in my opinion, any system we come up with is counterproductive. and i believe that at this moment we cannot afford to make that mistake. failure to address our differences will put our common values in serious jeopardy.
mr president, the climate change agreement in paris is the first global deal on climate change, which means that for the very first time we have 195 countries that managed to agree to decouple their economic growth from fossil fuel. and yes, this is also thanks to the eu. i believe that cop21 was successful in that paris managed to unite all countries to take action. elements of the agreement are legally binding, and it represents unmatched levels of cooperation which saw governments, regions, businesses and campaigners coming together. however, i believe that this is only the beginning. more needs to be done. it is vital that countries ratify this agreement. the current indcs (intended nationally determined contributions) need to be updated because, as they stand today, they are not sufficient to achieve the 1.5°c we are hoping for. it means that we require credible plans to decarbonise our economies and protect the most vulnerable from the devastating impact of climate change. obviously, i wanted to see more. once again, shipping and aviation managed to be excluded. it would also have been better to have a specific date for the peaking of emissions. i would have liked to see more happen before 2020 and fewer opportunities for legislatures to fail to ratify. but what is different this time round is that we have a robust agreement which lays a solid foundation for a more stable and better climate.
first vice-president and member of the commission.– mr president, i will be brief, as per your request. in the course of history we europeans have been incredible at creating results. we are creative, we are adaptable, and, in the course of our history, we have also been very good at destruction and at killing each other. nobody does it better than we do. and we have learned, after two failed attempts – fortunately – at collective suicide, that working together is a lot better than trying to do it on our own and looking for confrontation. this year has seen a perfect storm. on top of an economic crisis and a banking crisis, which had already eaten away at people’s self—confidence, came the huge challenge of the terrorism crisis, and, on top of that, the refugee crisis. no wonder that many europeans are unhappy with the present situation. but it is my profound belief that looking for solutions individually, at the expense of other europeans, against other europeans, is moving back to a part of our history i thought we had left behind us forever. we will only come out of these crises if we work together. that is the spirit with which the commission has made the proposals. are the proposals perfect? i do not pretend they are, but they are a positive step toward solving a problem at our borders. they are a positive step towards showing european citizens that we need to solve this together. if member states have better solutions, better options, please put them on the table. we are not dogmatic about them. let me say one thing to conclude. we need to do a better job of protecting our external borders. there is no contradiction between being europeans and being protective of our external borders. we are a community of values based on solidarity, and solidarity is something that means that you stick together. it does not mean what i hear ms keller say, namely that we should have a european union without borders. that is elitist populism. we cannot survive without borders. we have to select, at our borders, who has the right to international protection, and who does not have the right to international protection and should be returned to their countries. the only way we can maintain solidarity in our society for people who deserve international protection is to ensure that the people who get it deserve it. otherwise, we will undermine even the support for those who need international protection. let us be under no illusion about that. (applause)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for these debates and for the messages which have been addressed to the european council. as the draft conclusions of the european council have been mentioned, i would say that if we implement everything in the draft conclusions, if we adopt them and implement them, we will have made great progress, real progress. and among these advances, the crucial one is to preserve both the free movement of european citizens and their security. european citizens want both. it is up to us to guarantee them that freedom and security. the implementation of all the decisions taken must be accelerated, and this must be done quickly and efficiently. it is true that this is not the time for half-measures. but when we look back a few months, has europe been standing still, has nothing been done, has nothing been adopted? no, you can't! we have a long list of achievements, of progress, thanks to parliament, such as the pnr, data protection, the platform against illegal work, etc. so europe is not standing still. but it is true that we have been caught off guard by the drama at our borders, by the crisis in syria, by the migration crisis, and perhaps this is because we have forgotten that european construction is a response to the tragic dimension of history, as the vice-president of the commission has in a way also reminded us: two world wars, an economic crisis, fascism, auschwitz. we may have forgotten that history is tragic, as raymond aron said when the soviet union invaded afghanistan. so we must recover this capacity to act, this capacity to decide together, to achieve together, because, indeed, the challenges are considerable. all those who preach nationalist or nationalist withdrawal are illusionists, who ignore both the magnitude of the issues and the lessons of history. i can tell you that the presidency will remain committed to the next european council, as it has been for the past few months, to a europe of solidarity, strength, action and respect for its values.
in writing.– it is obvious that the european union needs a functioning migration and asylum policy to underpin the schengen system. we obviously do not have it. the proposal to create a new, stronger frontex is another proposal in firefighting mode. it aims to staunch the flow of migrants and refugees that has become uncontrollable in past months. we obviously need stronger, more effective border controls. we also need first greater coherence in the formulation of migration policies. these cannot be simply packaged in beautiful statements about solidarity and european values, while lacking the tools to manage them. nor can migration policies simply be declared unilaterally, provoking greater problems, and then expecting border states to assume full responsibility. the latter would then need to mobilise additional own financial resources, even as dublin 2 remains in force. even less acceptable is the concept of a new frontex that would have the power to override national competences. most states at the eu’s so-called external borders are small and have limited resources. what is being proposed, unless radically amended, amounts to a further reduction of their sovereignty without any transparent counterbalancing measures that would ensure the burdens of immigration are being contained and fairly distributed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european banking authority, andrea enria, for another five-year term as both his hearing in the economic and monetary affairs committee was successful and his activities during the current term in office were satisfactory.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this extension on the basis of a decision dated 8 september 2015 by the board of supervisors of the eba proposing to extend the term of office of andrea enria, the incumbent chairperson of the eba, by another five-year term. the board of supervisors of the eba is best placed to judge the competence of the person and alternative scenarios.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reappointment of the chairperson of the european banking authority. in 2011, andrea enria was selected to be the chairperson of the european banking authority for five years. i voted in favour of extending enria’s mandate for another five years. prior to this decision, the parliament invited enria to the committee on economic affairs in november of this year, where enria answered many questions in a satisfactory manner.
in writing. ‒ following on from the board of supervisors of the eba’s proposal to extend andrea enria’s term of office, as well as his successful hearing before the econ committee i was happy to support this extension.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gualtieri report because i support the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino as the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority following his hearing in the committee of the economic and monetary affairs. the evaluation of his work was positive and the board of directors of eiopa was also satisfied with mr bernardino keeping his post.
in writing. – i voted in favour on the basis of a positive recommendation on 30 september 2015 by the board of supervisors of the eiopa proposing the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino, the incumbent chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term, following response to questions from the members of the economic and monetary affairs committee on 17 november 2015. the board of supervisors of the eiopa is best placed to judge the competence of the person and alternative scenarios.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reappointment of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. in 2011, gabriel bernardino was selected to be the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for five years. i voted in favour of extending his mandate for another five years. prior to the vote parliament invited bernardino to the committee on economic affairs in november where no major issues came up.
in writing. ‒ following on from the board of supervisors of the eiopa’s proposal to extend gabriel bernardino’s term of office, as well as his successful hearing before the econ committee, i was happy to support this extension.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gualtieri (a8-0348/2015) report, because i support the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation of the board of supervisors of the esma and the committee on economic and monetary affairs i voted in favour of the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of steven maijoor as the european securities and markets authority. his performance was satisfactory and it is appropriate to allow mr maijoor to continue his work.
in writing. – i voted in favour, on the basis of a positive recommendation in september 2015 by the board of supervisors of the esma proposing this extension in the term of office of steven maijoor, the incumbent chairperson of the esma, and the decision dated 17 november 2015 by the committee on economic and monetary affairs following a session held with mr maijoor with the members of the same committee. the board of supervisors of the esma is best placed to judge the competence of the person and alternative scenarios.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reappointment of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority. in 2011, steven maijoor was selected to be chairperson of the european securities and markets authority for five years. following a suggestion by the board of supervisors of the esma, the committee on economic affairs invited maijoor to the european parliament in order to discuss a five-year extension of his mandate. i approved this extension.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gualtieri (a8-0346/2015) report, because i support the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority (esma).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, as it will help in providing a closer police cooperation between the two sides and improve security in the region.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it aims to ensure that the competent and relevant authorities designated by bosnia and herzegovina and europol share information. this interconnectivity enables border guards to identify people with either fraudulent or no documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ireland receiving european globalisation adjustment fund money following an application for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in one company and supplier in ireland. the application is considered admissible since the redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the economy.
in writing. – i am voting in favour on the assumption that the rule of one-size-fits all should not apply for small states all the time and at all costs. the case of ireland is a case in point whereby 108 redundancies in a sensitive sector proved enough grounds for the qualification of the case as ‘exceptional circumstances’ qualifying the reason for a contribution of eur 442 293 under that regulation. the fact that 108 young people not in employment, education or training (neets) under the age of 25 on the date of submission of the application will also have access to personalised services co-financed by the egf is a further incentive for me to vote in favour of hope towards their future. my vote also reflects ireland’s determination to do its part too through the implementation of five types of measures for redundant workers covered by such application based on a programme similar to the egf programme for sr technics which led to positive outcomes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which presents an application for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to assist former employees of pwa international ltd in ireland following the redundancy of 500 employees due to major structural changes in world trade patterns. the funds will go towards the reintegration of these persons back into the job market. i believe that workers who end up becoming redundant due to global economic trends, which they have no control over, need at least to be given the help to find alternative employment as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is one of the key tools at the union’s disposal to provide additional assistance to workers negatively impacted upon by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission approved this specific application as it met the conditions for mobilising egf to support the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report to alleviate the situation of 108 workers in pwa international in ireland due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the negrescu (a8-0363/2015) report for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application from ireland – egf/2015/006 ie/pwa international. this decision will mobilise the egf fund in favour of ireland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in pwa international ltd, as well as for the integration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training (neets). i agree with the personalised services which are to be provided to workers made redundant, consisting of five types of measures: (i) guidance and career planning and development; (ii) egf training grants; (iii) training and further education programmes; (iv) higher education programmes; and (v) time limited allowances.
in writing. – i understand that invasive alien species are numerous and it is therefore important to ensure that priority is given to addressing the subset of invasive alien species considered to be of union concern on public health. the question is whether this is best to be done at a supranational level or at a national level and whether the proposed solution addresses concretely the problem we are facing. the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the commission. taking note that parliament has not been appropriately informed about setting out the common elements for the elaboration of risk assessments, and whereas the transmission of the relevant documents to parliament was not simultaneous, timely and appropriate; keeping in mind that the draft union list fails to address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner so as to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services; i agree that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing regulation and submit a new draft to the parliament in a proper way which addresses concretely the issue of invasive alien species.
in writing. ‒ i objected to the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of 36 invasive alien species of union concern. the initial list ignores species that are amongst the most detrimental ias in europe. some terrestrial plant and mammal species comply with the criteria and a robust risk assessment is available, yet they are not included on the list. mammal species that are among the most rapidly expanding alien species in europe in recent years are not listed. the widely spread and rapidly expanding plant species, with considerable and well documented adverse effects on human health, are not listed either. the 2020 biodiversity strategy will fail if we won’t fight the real challenges we are currently facing. the ias regulation can deliver real results, but only if rightly implemented and supported by the local authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection as the draft list does not present a comprehensive list of all problematic alien species or present a strategy for biodiversity for the eu that local authorities, stakeholders and the general public can support. i agreed with the objection that the commission should redraw its regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliamentary motion objecting to the authorisation of genetically modified maize as i am concerned that it contains stacked (multiple) genes, on which there is still no agreement amongst experts on possible synergistic effects even if the individual genes have already been authorised separately.
in writing. – in my view the adoption of gmo cultivation is irreversible and leads to the enslavement of farmers to multinational companies; the import of gmos is indirectly responsible for this enslavement, which does not meet with the approval of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i agree with objecting to the draft commission implementing decisions which authorises the placing on the market of genetically modified maize since it contains stacked genes. in the case of stacked (multiple) genes there is still a debate going on, on possible synergistic effects even if the individual genes have already been authorised singly. for these reasons, i could not support the draft commission implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 as the substance was classified as a probable carcinogen by the who. i also supported this objection as every authorisation decision taken by the commission concerning genetically modified organisms was done so without the necessary support of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution objecting to the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize nk 603 x t25 pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, since it seems that the genetically modified organism in question, maize nk 603 x t25 contains stacked genes. in the case of stacked (multiple) genes there is still some debate on possible synergistic effects even if the individual genes have already been authorised singly, therefore i could not support the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of tax transparency and against tax fraud. however, i believe that fighting tax fraud does not mean that the eu should legally oblige malta to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). tax related issues are and will remain national competences. i am convinced that a one-size-fits all approach is not the right way forward for europe as the eu is not a homogenous area and not all regions in the eu face the same economic realities, be it for their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. inevitably it would be the eu’s smaller economies, such as malta, that would bear the disproportionate brunt of such policies. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. – i reaffirm my position against an eu corporate tax policy while at the same time i underscore my firm belief in tax transparency and the fight against tax fraud. but to implement the latter there is no need for a mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base because the eu is not a homogenous area and not all regions in the eu face the same economic realities, be it for their domestic market size, geographical realities or resources. a one-size-fits all approach is not the right way forward for europe as inevitably it would be the eu’s smaller economies, such as malta, that would bear the disproportionate brunt of such policies.
in writing. – when dealing with taxation i am always in favour of having proper tax transparency rules and boosting our fight against tax fraud and abuse. but this should not mean the implicit or explicit mandatory introduction of tax harmonisation or convergence, including also the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). not all member states in the eu have the same economic realities and small economies do face different economic and geographical realities, market size and resources which are different from larger economies. small economies require flexibility to help them counterbalance the disadvantages which they otherwise would face. tax matters should remain an issue of national competence which can help reflect these different realities. otherwise, small economies like malta would end up carrying the greatest burden. for these reasons i could not support this report.
in writing. ‒ even though i support the union’s efforts to tackle illicit financial flows and promote transparency, i could not support this report as it contained references to the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base which infringes on member states’ national competences.
in writing. ‒ i have stated previously that as far as taxation at eu level is concerned, i have always been in favour of transparency, coordination and exchange of information. i support measures targeting abuse, enhancing transparency and addressing instances of harmful tax competition in the area of corporate taxation as promulgated by international standards. however, the dodds report goes beyond those objectives and calls for measures to bring forward, as soon as possible, a legislative proposal for the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base and various actions towards the introduction of tax harmonisation at european level. in my opinion a move towards an eu-wide basis to introduce tax convergence and harmonisation in direct tax matters, forcing a one-size-fits all approach, can put small countries such as malta into a disadvantaged position. therefore i voted against the dodds report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with all proposals in this report which make recommendations regarding an improvement in transparency related to the taxation measures applying in eu member states. i fully support measures uniquely designed to promote full transparency in national tax treatments. however the report basically proposes measures that implicitly or explicitly promote moves that on an eu-wide basis would introduce tax convergence and harmonisation. this goes against the interests of smaller economies of the union, which lack the endowments of the larger economies. their flexibility in policy making is already constrained among others, by the convergence in vat rates, state aid rules, the single currency, the six pack/two pack rules applied to their budgets. as a result, structural divergences between parts of the union have grown, not diminished. reducing the tax flexibility of such economies would further increase these disparities, which is unfair, dysfunctional and unacceptable. tax competition should remain part of the limited array of decision tools available to national economies. for these reasons, i have voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the 40 years since the first diplomatic relations between the eu and china started. it underscores the commitment of both sides to the eu-china comprehensive strategic partnership, which will be mutually beneficial. the chinese government is also called upon to renter into a dialogue with tibetan representatives and a speedy solution to the tension in the areas of the south and east china seas. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – although the report reaffirms that forced abortions are strictly illegal in china, family-planning officials repeatedly coerce women into inhumane practices such as forced abortions or sterilisation. china needs to do more to show mutual concordance with the eu on the condemnation of the so-called ‘social maintenance fee’, an often-exorbitant fine that parents have to pay in the event of extra births. having said that i agree that the strategic partnership needs to be nurtured further through strong commitment in sincere cooperation between the eu and china, most notably with respect to mutual responsibility and a good level of confidence between the two parties based on universal value of upholding the fundamental principles of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report covers generically the relations between eu and china, dealing with political, economic, environmental, social and human rights aspects. the report has a constructive approach, by not just focusing on a critical attitude against china, but yet still being just in the areas where deficiencies are identified. noting that such a balance is healthy and strategically balanced in arriving at the desired outcomes in china, including the developments of certain individual freedoms, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report applauds the 40 years of diplomatic relations between the eu and china and utilises it as a way to strengthen the strategic partnership. i chose to support this report as it is clear that the partnership between the eu and china is of mutual benefit.
in writing. ‒ china has emerged as an important player on the world scene and is a key trade and investment partner of the eu and for any member state including malta. it is in the interest of european business that the eu strives for a sound and balanced economic relationship with china. therefore, i backed the resolution to strengthen the strategic partnership between the eu and china, but on the condition that the international trade between both sides is based on a fair global trade system and a level playing field among all players. we should have a constructive approach towards china, while being just in the areas where deficiencies are identified.
in writing. ‒ we are currently facing a growing number of humanitarian challenges and they continually put the international system to the test in providing the necessary assistance. i agree that the summit presents a unique opportunity to work together to ensure a principled and effective humanitarian action. on the other hand i was unable to vote in favour of this report as it included references to abortion and sexual and reproductive health and rights with which i disagree.
in writing. – i agree with the provision of humanitarian aid in line with international humanitarian law and also share the concerns over, and condemn, the continued use of rape and other forms of sexual and gender-based violence against women and girls as a war weapon in humanitarian emergencies; but i feel that ensuring that women and girls access to ‘safe abortion’ as part of a full range of sexual and reproductive health is a step too far which surpasses the eu’s parameters of legal jurisdiction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is parliament’s opinion on the global humanitarian situation and ways the eu can help assist in order to overcome global obstacles. this report comes shortly before the first ever world humanitarian summit and serves as parliament’s communication before this summit is held in istanbul this year. parliament’s communication focuses on various aspects of humanitarian aid taking into account the developments all over the world – in broad terms of security, poverty and famine, conflict and natural disasters. amongst other things, the report advocates to ensure extra efforts are made so that children in these regions affected by situations have full access to education – an aspect that is often overlooked in humanitarian policy. as is my policy line, i voted against reference to abortive measures as a solution. however, given that sexual reproductive health services include a wide range of services which can assist women to have healthy pregnancies and deliveries of their children in a safe and well informed environment i felt the need to vote in favour of such services in these situations to ensure that everyone is given a decent shot at life thanks to a safe delivery.
in writing. ‒ while this report contained amendments aimed at providing humanitarian assistance which i was happy to support, the final version of the report regrettably contained references to the right to abortion and therefore i could not support the final version of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on preparing for the world humanitarian summit (whs) by rapporteur enrique guerrero salom, because there are various elements of the report which i fully support, especially in view of the changing nature of humanitarian challenges that the world is facing at the moment. the summit presents a unique opportunity to work together to ensure a principled and effective humanitarian action. having said that however, i voted against the provisions in this report calling for the termination of pregnancy through induced abortion. the use of abortion is not the right way forward to resolve health or social problems and i am against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it aims to improve and make our base metals (steel, aluminium or non-ferrous metals) industry more efficient and to address its problem of competitiveness and allow for better investments. all of this while remembering about our commitments to the environment.
in writing. – i concur that industrial policy must comprise the tools and resources needed to make low-carbon transition a reality, and this can only be done through strategic management of base metals industries and by ensuring that the right tools and resources are available. we should avoid risks of experiencing what happened in 2008 – with the loss of no less than 60 000 jobs directly and over 100 000 jobs indirectly, resulting in dependency and losses of industrial know-how – through forward planning in the parameters of today’s climate change challenges.
in writing. ‒ i believe that actions aimed at safeguarding industries should focus on the reduction of operating costs in europe rather than the introduction of imposed costs which could create further imbalances in an already uneven playing field on the global market for european manufacturers. from a climate change perspective, i support a robust emissions trading scheme for the eu that provides a realistic carbon price signal and i consider the revision of the eu ets directive as an opportunity to strengthen the effectiveness of this policy instrument. however, the impact of the eu ets (and other environment measures) in the european steel industry, compared to other factors (economic, social, labour costs, demand, lack of innovation, lack of proactive action/investment by the sector etc.) needs to be fully addressed. free allocation should be based on clear, objective, quantitative criteria and should be targeted at the sector/sub-sector where carbon leakage is a proven reality. in my view an urgent in-depth review of existing measures together with the repercussions of any additional measures has to be swiftly undertaken.
in writing. ‒ this draft report highlights the particular vulnerabilities of the base metal industry as well as eu climate and energy policy. i supported the report as it seeks to help build an efficient framework for these sectors and introduces the carbon border adjustment which is a temporary and flexible measure of international dimensions in line with the wto.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report of edouard martin on developing a sustainable european industry of base metals, with some reservations on the free allocation of carbon leakage. whilst i strongly support the european base metals industry, i also think that before comparing the impact of the eu ets (and other environment measures) on the european steel industry, first we need to address other factors, such as economic, social, labour costs, demand, lack of innovation, lack of proactive action/investment by the sector, etc. free allocation rules, in particular to address concerns such as carbon leakage, should not be detrimental to the availability of auctioning rights and should be based on clear, objective, quantitative criteria, targeted only if carbon leakage is a proven reality. the commission should first undertake regular analyses before proposing any actions in that particular area. furthermore, an urgent in-depth review of existing measures together with the repercussions of any additional measures has to be swiftly as well as carefully undertaken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which firstly expresses disappointment at the failure of the commission to respond to the parliament’s request to undertake an in-depth monitoring process of the situation in hungary; secondly recognises that due to the situation of breaches of fundamental rights and disregard for rule of law in hungary which go against the eu’s principles of solidarity and human rights all criteria to activate the article 7 procedure of the teu are met; and thirdly, calls for a parliamentary report into the matter in order to call on the council to act pursuant to article 7(1). i gave my support to this resolution because of the disregard in hungary of democratic values such as freedom of expression and the equal treatment of persons, including jews, lgbti persons and roma persons. furthermore, i am of the view that all member states should live up to their obligations in the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution calling for an investigation into violations of fundamental rights by the government of viktor orbán in hungary, because with this resolution we are sending a strong message to the hungarian people that we stand up for their basic rights. the resolution urges the commission to activate the first stage of the eu framework to strengthen the rule of law, and therefore to initiate immediately an in-depth monitoring process concerning the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, assessing a potential systemic serious breach of the values on which the union is founded as per article 2 teu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i believe that this matter should be dealt with in the appropriate european parliament committee without creating additional burdensome committees. the creation of an inquiry committee will not solve the problem. i believe that we should build a legal framework which makes european cars the cleanest, most competitive and most efficient in the future. we need to implement the new emission norms and tests which resemble real driving conditions as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ as one of the persons pushing for the setting up of this inquiry committee in the environment committee i supported this vote. i believe that we need to look at what mistakes were made in the past and work on strategies and policies that can ensure that such things do not happen again.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament’s request to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. i agree with the aim of the inquiry, which would be to investigate alleged contraventions of union law and alleged maladministration in the application of union law which appear to be the act of an institution or body of the european union and public administrative bodies of member states.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to give my consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states and vietnam to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. – the importance attached to the traditional friendship and cooperation between croatia and vietnam on the basis of equality and mutual understanding, in line with its foreign policy of independence, diversification and multilateralisation and proactive integration is welcome. earlier this year both leaders agreed that there is great potential for vietnam and croatia to expand their cooperation, and the signing of the economic cooperation agreement expected in this visit will facilitate cooperation in the oil and gas, infrastructure construction, tourism and food industries. it is beneficial for croatia and also indirectly for other eu member states to benefit from such friendship and cooperation with this growing economy, which will open up new opportunities for companies on both sides by increasing market access for goods and services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this procedural report aimed at taking account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu in the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this technical measure, as parliament must give its consent before new member states can be recognised by signatories of the agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation. in this case parliament had to give its consent to the agreement being amended to take into account the treaty of accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, whilst taking into account economic, social and environmental progress and the principle of sustainable development, therefore i have voted in favour of the kalniete report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (protocol to take account of the accession of croatia).
in writing. ‒ i agree to give my consent to the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states and vietnam and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. – for me it is positive having the eu finally reaching an agreement on trade with one of asia’s most dynamic economies which establishes a good standard for the trade relationship between the eu and south east asia as a whole. for this reason i see no reason for not voting in favour to further deepen our partnership and cooperation with vietnam. there is eu interest in a growing economy and this agreement will provide significant new opportunities for companies on both sides, by increasing market access for goods and services – noting that over 31 million jobs in europe depend on exports – so having easier access to a growing and fast developing market like vietnam, with its 90 million consumers, is great news. until 2014, the eu was the second trading partner for vietnam after china (not including trade within asean), representing 10% of total vietnamese trade. the eu was vietnam’s second export destination (after the us), with the eu purchasing as much as 18% of vietnam’s global exports. eu-vietnam trade in goods was worth over eur 28.2 billion, with eur 22.1 billion of imports from vietnam into the eu and eur 6.2 billion of exports from the eu to vietnam.
in writing. ‒ this is a procedural vote on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. its aim is to update the framework agreement in order for it to apply also for croatia. the vote gives consent to the conclusion of the agreement. hence i have voted in favour of this procedural report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, whilst taking into account economic, social and environmental progress and the principle of sustainable development, therefore i have voted in favour of the lochbihler report on eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (consent).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the elements in the eu’s relationship with vietnam and the concerns that still remain. the eu partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) with vietnam has moved rapidly from trade and aid to a more comprehensive relationship based on shared interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. it should be noted that over the past decades vietnam has consistently adopted a markedly pro-european approach and has been actively engaged with the eu. on the other hand, a number of concerns still remain like restrictions in vietnam on freedom of expression both online and offline, freedom of the press and media, access to information, freedom of assembly and association as well as freedom of religion. vietnam is also one of the major source countries for victims of human trafficking.
in writing. – the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement aims to establish a modern, broad-based and mutually beneficial partnership, based on shared interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. from a trade point of view, the eu is vietnam’s biggest export market; whereas the eu together with its member states is the largest oda provider to vietnam and there will be an eu budget increase for this purpose of 30 % to eur 400 million in 2014-2020. i also underline the concern about vietnam being one of the major source countries for victims of human trafficking, and about reports of large numbers of children, especially boys who are not protected by the law against sexual abuse, falling victim to child prostitution, trafficking or maltreatment, urging vietnam to develop strong and effective child protection laws that protect all children regardless of their gender.
in writing. ‒ this resolution forms part of a number of votes that need to be taken in conjunction on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. its aim is to update the framework agreement in order for it to apply also for croatia, and hence i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and vietnam as the union can provide additional support to increasing good governance and the rule of law in vietnam. the agreement also means that the eu can offer its expertise in the realms of protecting workers’ rights, freedom of expression and combating corruption.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, whilst taking into account economic, social and environmental progress and the principle of sustainable development, therefore i have voted in favour of the lochbihler report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (resolution).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for more european parliamentary oversight and debate at european level, which are necessary to ensure the democratic accountability of the decisions taken in the context of the european monetary union (emu) and for parliament to be consulted in due time in the context of the preparation of the white paper on the transition between phase 1 and phase 2 of the reforms of the emu.
in writing. – i believe that despite difficulties, the emu helped eurozone countries to combat the global crises which took place until a couple of years ago. yet completing the union as we want it will need to factor in difficulties like the large scale fiscal transfers which are still absent and labour mobility which is relatively low. to this effect, member states need to put in place policies that ensure fiscal stability, prevent the emergence of large macroeconomic imbalances and facilitate adjustment in case of shocks. for this reason i agree with a steady, yet slow movement because emu is not exactly ready for the next crisis, but what has already been achieved will help overcome fiscal turbulence in its journey to rebuild trust. although i agree and voted in favour i am still sceptical about the preparedness of the eurozone for fundamental changes over the next year, as we still do not have enough intellectual convergence on what is needed.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which focuses on the package adopted by the commission on 21 october 2015. it states that while some elements of the package can be welcomed (for instance the aggregate analysis and the stance on the completion of the banking union), it is regrettable that it moves the emu more into intergovernmental mode. i agree with strengthening the existing frameworks as long as they are within the parameters of the treaties. furthermore, it is also important to recall the role of national parliaments, which are the democratically elected institutions closest to where the impact of decisions and reforms are felt.
in writing. ‒ i supported for this motion for a resolution as it calls for more parliamentary oversight and debate at european level, as the current commission proposal does not allow for democratic accountability of the decisions taken in regard to the economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on completing europe’s economic and monetary union, which is a response to the commission package adopted on 21 october to complete the emu within the first phase of the five presidents’ report. i agree with the european parliament resolution, which notably regrets that the package proposed by the commission does not leave enough room for parliamentary oversight and debate at the european level.
in writing. ‒ i believe that human rights and democratic values should remain at the core of the eu’s relations with third countries and of the eu’s actions in general. i agree on the importance of the eu stepping up its efforts to make full use of all policy tools at its disposal in order to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles worldwide, as has been set out in this report, including gender equality and identity. i also agreed with the text concerning the abolition of the death penalty and the prohibition of surrogate motherhood. on the other hand, i was unable to vote in favour of this report as it contained references to abortion and sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. – once again we are denouncing the dramatic number of deaths at sea in the mediterranean making this sea the deadliest region in the world for irregular migration, wasting ink to reaffirm this year on year without registering any significant progress. i am extremely concerned about reports of human rights abuses against migrants and asylum seekers on their way to the eu and i call for the union and its member states to cooperate with the un, regional mechanisms, governments and ngos to tackle these issues in an urgent manner through integrated policies that are more closely rooted in the principle of solidarity at union level. but such needs to lead to action, boosting cooperation with these countries to the highest level in order to dismantle the illegal networks used to traffic migrants and fight illegal mafias profiting from human trafficking and human smuggling. unless i see this happening in a decisive manner i feel i should not applaud member states’ efforts in living up to what should be their expectations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and eu policy on the matter. it deals with a number of issues: mainly refugee policy and development policy and the link between the two. it also focuses on lgbti rights, business in third countries – especially eu business and the need to include human rights in our trade policies and industries in third countries. the report also focuses on the situation of women’s rights in the world, touching upon inequality and violence against women it reiterates the ep’s call against the death penalty and speaks about freedom of expression and religion. whilst i am in favour of the general position and the calls made in this report, i voted against sexual and reproductive health rights since they include abortion and also the termination of pregnancy through abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual human rights report 2014, which in my opinion gives a good account of the state of play on the eu policy instruments for advancing human rights worldwide and proposes ways to ensure the promotion of human rights and democracy through eu external policies. the report covers important issues such as promoting social, economic, civil and cultural rights, and especially the rights of women and children who are the first victims of economic hardship. i fully support the measures agreed in the report on lgbti rights, ilo standards, promoting civil society, protecting human rights defenders, among others. at times when people around the world are more vulnerable than ever due to economic crisis, war conflicts and terrorism, i think it is important that europe steps up its commitment to promote and defend the concept of the universality of human rights. having said that, however, i would like to note that i voted against certain elements in the report on abortion and sexual and reproductive health rights. in my opinion the use or introduction of abortion is the wrong way to address health or social problems and to promote human rights worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement, but also its limitations. it is important not only to recall the importance of the signing of the agreement, but also to remember all the tragic victims of the war in bosnia and herzegovina. the authorities should use the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as an incentive to move forward with the necessary reforms – especially in view of bosnia and herzegovina’s forthcoming eu membership application – but also with political reforms and democratisation of the political system, which will lead in the direction of ensuring true equality and democratic representation of all three constituent peoples and all the country’s citizens.
in writing. – my vote in favour of this motion for a resolution is to nudge the competent authorities to use the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as an incentive to move forward with the necessary reforms towards true equality for all nations, also especially in view of bosnia and herzegovina’s pending eu membership application following one of the (if not the) bloodiest conflict in europe since the second world war. i concur with the strong statement made through this motion that so far peace and democratic forces have unfortunately failed to create a functioning and self-sustainable state.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for resolution focuses on the commemoration of 20 years since the end of the war in bosnia and herzegovina, and 20 years since the dayton peace agreement that was signed following the war. i supported this resolution which notes that successive governments failed to build a fully functioning and self-sustainable state but acknowledges that bosnia and herzegovina has managed to transform itself into an aspiring member of the eu. i support the call that was made on authorities to use the anniversary as a platform to move forward with necessary reforms with regards to addressing the socio-economic needs of its citizen and putting in place crucial democratic reforms which emphasizes on equal opportunities for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cross-party resolution as it pays tribute to the victims of the war in bosnia and herzegovina and also acknowledges the need for greater coordination to return the internally displaced people to their areas of origin.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the general framework agreement for peace in bosnia and herzegovina, concluded on 21 november 1995 in dayton and officially signed on 14 december 1995 in paris, parliament recalls the crucial contribution of the dayton agreement in ending the war that claimed the lives of an estimated 220 000 people and produced 2 million refugees. the anniversary of the dayton agreement should serve as a reminder that a diplomatic solution is possible even to the worst conflicts. bosnia and herzegovina and its people deserve a peaceful and prosperous future and the eu integration process is of crucial importance also in this respect, therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree that the european parliament calls for a stricter application of the eight criteria of the common position and possibilities of extending them to the transfer of arms-export-related services like consultancy or eu-based private military companies, and for a coordinated approach at eu level. but i abstained on this report as i believe it goes way beyond the european parliament’s remit on a matter of national competence. it makes unrealistic demands of delivery of information by member states in terms of licences issued and in the general arms trade.
in writing. – the eu’s common position on arms exports is the only legally binding region-wide arrangement on conventional arms exports. while the common position has increased information-sharing and transparency of member states’ arms exports, there is still scope for enhancing the convergence of national arms-exports policies and for stricter implementation of the criteria defined in the act. more recently i came across council reaffirmations about the importance of establishing a robust, sustainable and cost-efficient regime, while the immediate challenges are to promote the universalisation of the treaty along with its effective implementation by states parties, to which i agree. at the eu level, the council reaffirms its commitment to the robust and effective implementation of the agreement by eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which deals with adopting a common position on arms export. keeping in mind the tumultuous times we live in with access to arms strengthening terrorist groups and fuelling conflicts that leave thousands of innocent victims it is crucial that europe leads by example by adopting the most cautious of approaches in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on arms export: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp, which provides for a legally binding framework laying down eight criteria for the export of conventional arms to be applied by eu member states to their licensing decisions, and helps to impose better regulation for arms exports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i am concerned that the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office (epo) on cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli) could lead to more patents being granted by the epo in respect of natural traits introduced into new varieties by means of essentially biological processes such as crossing and selection. i urge the commission to report on the development and implications of patent law in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering, as required in article 16(c) of directive 98/44/ec and as requested by parliament in its resolution of 10 may 2012 on the patenting of essential biological processes.
in writing. – since the motion for resolution calls upon the commission to report on the development and implications of patent law in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering, as required in article 16(c) of directive 98/44/ec, it is contradictory to vote in favour of biological processes, such as plants, seeds, native traits and genes, to be arbitrarily excluded from patentability. the fundamental principle of the international system of plant variety rights is based on the international convention for the protection of new varieties of plants (the upov convention), and of the eu system based on council regulation (ec) no 2100/94, that the holder of a plant variety right cannot prevent others from using the protected plant for further breeding activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i believe that access to biological material is necessary in order to stimulate the innovative strength of the plant breeding sector. undermining the innovative ability of the plant breeding sector to develop new varieties poses a threat to global food production and food security and will have a negative impact on european competitiveness and may lead to monopolies on the food market. i want to make sure that we protect ourselves against these possibilities.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it calls for greater clarification from the commission regarding the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes. this clarification is essential if we are to harbour the spirit of innovation in the field of agriculture, especially in a time of uncertain food security and changing climate conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on patents and plant breeders’ rights because i agree with the assertion in the report that unrestricted access to biological material is necessary in order to stimulate the innovative strength of the plant breeding sector. undermining the innovative ability of the plant breeding sector to develop new varieties poses a threat to global food production and food security and will have a negative impact on european competitiveness and may lead to monopolies on the food market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because we, as the european union, need to formally protest against the current situation in burundi. violence and political intimidation are unacceptable and the international community should do everything possible to ensure that the crisis is resolved and human rights are respected again.
in writing. – five days ago we celebrated human rights day against a scenario of 240 people in burundi killed since president pierre nkurunziza launched a controversial bid to prolong his term in office last april and more than 210 000 people fleeing the country since then. clearly the situation in burundi has deteriorated dangerously in recent weeks and the security forces continue to disrespect the human rights of burundians, amid a general climate of impunity; daily reports of serious human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture, attacks on independent media and harassment and killings of human rights defenders, as well as unjustified limitations on the freedoms of peaceful assembly and expression. by voting in favour of this motion for a resolution i express agreement with resolution 2248 (2015) of the un security council to consider additional measures against all burundian actors whose actions and statements contribute to the perpetuation of violence and impede the search for a peaceful solution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution deals with the security and democratic situation in burundi including human rights violations and conflicts between burundi security forces and civilians resulting in deaths and random executions. it also touches upon serious breaches of democracy in the sense of a possible dictatorship in the making after the current president overstayed his mandate. the resolution also condemns various instances in burundi where rule of law was not being adhered to, such as the last elections which the international community did not view as transparent and the general deterioration of the security of the country and region. as i believe that the european parliament should continue acting as one of the strongest international advocates for the protection of human rights and democracy i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution as it calls for an immediate end to the violence in burundi. i was also proud to sign this cross-party resolution as it also highlights the need for the burundian constitution to be respected and as it enshrines the protection of human rights, civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms for the burundian people.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the ongoing killings and human rights violations as well as deplore the worsening humanitarian situation in burundi, therefore i voted in favour of the final resolution which is calling for ending the violence and human rights abuses in burundi. furthermore, the resolution agrees that it is of great importance to prevent a further deterioration of the situation, including through political dialogue between the government and the opposition, including civil society and ensuring accountability for the violations committed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as we need to do everything we can in order to stop any further damage to the virunga national park which is one of the unesco world heritage sites. it is a site of exploitation of oil and other illegal activities which damage the environment irreversibly and are a threat to many animal species.
in writing.– the oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site, which is globally renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa is a common heritage protected under the convention on biological diversity. the protection of this site is a common concern of humankind and is an integral part of the development process. we have a convention, which is legally binding, obliging its signatories to implement its provisions, amongst them the issue of oil exploitation in the drc which is still hampered with an obvious weakness vis-à-vis private actors added to ongoing conflicts of interests. i agree with this motion in calling upon the european external action service to coordinate a diplomatic response from the eu member states. i agree that the commission and the member states should uphold the integrity of the park and support the drc government in developing sustainable energy and economic alternatives to extractive industries, in improving governance, and in combating poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining and corruption, which are persistent phenomena that risk causing irreversible damage to the park, which, as i said, is of common concern to humankind.
in writing. ‒ africa's oldest national park, virunga, in congo (a unesco world heritage site) is under threat because of the conflict situation in the surrounding region and the situation of illegal mining, illegal exploitation of natural resources such as timber, charcoal etc. and the poaching and trade of endangered animals. the report urges the commission, member states and the eu’s diplomatic arm to exert the needed pressures on a multitude of levels to see for the protection of this unesco world heritage site. as i believe that we should all be responsible for protecting and preserving the environment i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the need to protect the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo (drc) from the damage caused by exploration and exploitation of oil and other illegal activities. the resolution focuses on the assistance that the eeas and the union as a whole can offer to the government of the drc in rejecting and resisting oil exploration and extraction in this world heritage site.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. the park is africa’s oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, and it is globally renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa. nevertheless, the park has been under threat for decades by armed groups that engage in poaching, deforestation and other forms of unsustainable and illegal resource exploitation. therefore i voted in favour of the resolution adopting different measures and stressing the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the vnp before it is too late.
