you're short on time, so i'll try to help you. we are talking about genetically modified organisms today, but we are talking about something much bigger. we are talking about more, about the self-determination of sovereign states. as former u.s. president ronald reagan said, if a country does not control its borders, then you cannot speak of a country. the member states in the eu are not countries. but it goes further, because they also have no control over the spending of their tax money. they have no legislation of their own. so whether it is the admission of budgetary rules, the admission of foreigners, or the admission of gmos, the eu should not interfere. that is up to the member states themselves. (the president answered a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. there is a great lack of democratic content. that is not just true of this debate, it is true of all debates, whether they are very simple or very complex decision-making. it is a blessing that we are sitting here without any democratic legitimacy on your part. i therefore fully agree with this and i hope that we can have a long debate on this point.
for years we in europe have stressed the importance of knowledge and innovation. innovations in the field of genetic modification hold great promise and can lead to a better and more efficient food supply. i am therefore concerned that the european cultivation of new gm crops has become a sham. our agriculture is lagging behind. biotech companies, which provide many highly skilled jobs, look elsewhere for salvation. i hope that this new legislation will provide more scope and allow for a better start to the licensing process. if this does not succeed, new measures will have to be taken. the choice is up to the member states: let us think in terms of opportunities and not in terms of risks. european agriculture is still one of the most innovative in the world. let's keep it that way.
in writing. the ecr group abstained on my proposal in the vote on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe. before voting on that agreement, we felt that it was going too far. for although this relatively small agreement contains positive elements, including more extensive support for local fisheries, unfortunately it lacks an important aspect. the agreement does not contain any agreements on the protection of sharks, whereas bycatch of sharks is a major problem in these waters. i am disappointed that this is not sufficiently acknowledged by the european commission. it is a missed opportunity that the agreement does not include any conservation measures to reduce by-catch of sharks. i hope that the european commission will keep an eye on this issue when implementing this agreement and ensure that the wider international agreements on shark bycatch in tuna fishing are respected. also in the waters off the island group of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. while i welcome the return to national governments of a power that should never have been taken from them by the eu, i voted against this proposal because it does not provide sufficient legal guarantees for states to ban genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their own territory.
in writing. these new rules further open the european door to genetically modified products and leave member states with too few options to ban genetically modified crops (gmos). biotech companies will use a divide and rule tactic. if gmos are authorised in some member states, other countries will have to follow quickly to avoid disrupting the internal market. 90% of europeans do not want genetically modified crops in their fields, let alone in their food. member states should be given extensive and legally guaranteed options to ban these crops on their own, even if brussels does allow them. the party for the animals has for years opposed genetic manipulation, partly because it leads to more monocultures, whereas there is a lot of effort to increase the diversity of species. in addition, these gmos will increase the use of agricultural pesticides, further degrading the quality of soil, groundwater and surface water. we must instead focus on cleaner, organic farming, which does not rely on agricultural pesticides. that is why i voted against this bill.
in writing. while i welcome the return to national governments of a power that should never have been taken from them by the eu, i voted against this proposal because it does not provide sufficient legal guarantees for states to ban genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their own territory.
the mediterranean is one of the most beautiful seas in the world, but it is threatened by overfishing, by-catch and the plundering of coral reefs. the commission proposal was largely focused on restoring ecosystems, but did not exclude fisheries. i have proposed that fishing be banned altogether in the most vulnerable areas. this offers a chance for overfished fish species to survive and prevents many other species from being by-catched. trawling in particular is responsible for a high incidence of by-catches of dolphins, seabirds and other mammals, which are caught in the nets and subsequently drown. scientific advice has been given to limit trawls. i asked for a total ban because this is much more controllable. i also proposed to prevent the plundering of coral reefs by banning the harvesting and sale of red coral, also called blood coral. coral reefs are threatened because much of the coral is used to make jewelry. the underwater world of coral reefs is unique and deserves our protection. unfortunately, many of the amendments were aimed at broadening the commission's proposal rather than tightening it up. i voted against this very weakened proposal.
the european summit on the investment package was supposed to last two days, but it lasted about two hours. you could say that the countries were like the chickens in the henhouse to miss their chance. the member states have a fine line on jobs and growth, but they forget to put it into practice, namely reforming their economies, but certainly also freeing up money for private and public investment. only with contributions from countries can the juncker investment programme have a sufficient impact. the economic policies of the member states now resemble those of the gold standard. this is not a good omen for the euro as a currency and certainly not for the european citizens. they are paying the price for low growth and high unemployment. i therefore ask the commission and the president of the european council, donald tusk, to urge the european countries to seize their opportunity.
the islamic state is also increasing its presence in libya, according to alarms from us military circles. this is not just about training camps in isolated libyan regions, but also the mediterranean city of derna. please note that derna is only 200 km from the european coast. i have two simple questions for the high representative: 1. are the american alarm bells about the growing presence of jihadists from the islamic state on libyan territory correct? are they verifiable? the second. and if so, how does the european union think it can deal with the threat posed by isis from libya to its own continent? finally, i would like to join mr dodds in calling for european attention to the vulnerable christians in libya.
when we talk about people who can pay $8,000 for a crossing, we're not talking about pathetic refugees. $8,000 would make you a millionaire in africa. these are people who make investment decisions. one-time investment with the return on investment of a bed, a bath, a benefit and family reunification. but in europe we have reached the end of our capacity to take in people. and any asylum seeker or asylum seeker we allow in is at the expense of the people already in europe. allowing this mass immigration is therefore effectively denying that there are limits to money, resources and opportunities to provide people with a decent living. it reminds me a little of the childish naivety of my little girl, who thinks there's an infinite amount of money in an atm and that her father can keep on pinching. i 'll tell you what . i've never been able to do this before. and europe will not succeed either. there is also a real risk that among the people we bring in here are jihadi elements, who may have a very different purpose for our society than we have at present. finally, we must keep europe viable and therefore we must immediately stop admitting and taking in people. closing the borders, better today than tomorrow.
for the ppe group the relationship and communication between a client and his lawyer is of a special nature and the confidentiality of that relationship and communication is crucial to maintaining citizens' trust in the rule of law and thus also crucial to the functioning of our democracy. at the same time, this is not to say that such information should never be collected, that it is impossible or undesirable. i believe that wiretapping of conversations between clients and lawyers should be possible in very exceptional cases, when it is covered by sufficient safeguards and when it would be in the specific demonstrable interest of national or public security. that right, in the context of national security, to collect information about even this very special kind of conversation is also crucial for member states to guarantee the safety of their citizens. i wonder what exactly the purpose of this debate is here tonight. as the council and the commission have already pointed out, this is a national competence. the supervisory board for the intelligence and security services in the netherlands has issued a comprehensive opinion. it has been made public and presented to the national parliament. please let the national security and intelligence services and also the national parliaments do their job.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to vote in elections in their country of residence. that trust has been shamed by the revelations in the large-scale wiretapping scandals. it was only a matter of time before it became clear that somewhere in europe a secret service was tapping into a law firm for a long time. and it has become the netherlands, where the minister of the interior, ronald plasterk, admits that he has been listening to the law firm prakken d'oliveira in amsterdam for a long time. this is about the foundation of our rule of law, this is about our trust in government. if a conversation with a lawyer is no longer safe, what about a conversation with a doctor, or anyone else with a trade secret? the council says this is a national matter, but i say: no, it's not that. because there is a european directive from 2013 on the right to a lawyer, of which article 4 states that there is an obligation to guarantee confidentiality. there is also the charter of fundamental rights, which guarantees the right to a fair trial. this is not a simple national jurisdiction. i would therefore ask you, mrs jourová, and through you also mr timmermans, who is very familiar with the dutch minister of the interior: will you take the dutch authorities to court for not complying with the law and will you oblige the dutch authorities and the other member states to respect the confidentiality between client and lawyer?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, madam prime minister, president juncker, alde welcomes the priorities of the latvian presidency: competitiveness, the digital economy, a stronger presence of europe in global affairs. alde fully shares all of these objectives. but how serious are priorities if there is such a huge backlog in the council, so many legislative proposals still pending and so many blocked for many, many years? the council is a bit like the bermuda triangle. we send in a legislative proposal and it disappears, never to be heard of any more. we do not want any more grand designs for the future; we need action. do not talk about an investment plan but put your money where your mouth is, quite literally. do not talk about the digital economy: just adopt the telecoms package and the data protection package. no lip service to security and law enforcement: just adopt the europol regulation. do not talk about democracy: just adopt the transparency regulation. let us stop talking and deliver. the council is a legislator, so legislate. if no agreement can be found on a proposal then the council should simply decide to reject it and not keep it pending for ever. alde welcomes the special summit on the security package next month, and we consider that sharing information must be the first priority. it must be stepped up drastically. it should never happen again that attacks take place and we realise afterwards that the killers were known to the intelligence services. that is unacceptable. we build a huge haystack of personal data but information is not being shared and information that is not being shared is useless information. alde wants real security for citizens, not fake security and politics of symbolism. on the particular issue of pnr, the facts are that pnr data are being collected and shared in europe today. they are available to law enforcement and security authorities, so i can reassure those who are worried about that. but there is no proper legislative framework with all the required legal safeguards. a vote was taken in parliament in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposals of the commission and they were deemed inadequate, so now the ball is firmly in the court of the commission and the council. they should present a revised proposal and adopt the data protection directive as quickly as possible and not just ask parliament to vote again and again on identical proposals until they get the outcome that is to their liking. we should not make the same mistake as in 2005 when we adopted the data retention directive under great pressure and it was subsequently scrapped by the courts last year, as we know. we cannot afford to be sloppy again, in particular when it is about our security. what irritates me, president juncker, is that in the meantime, in the absence of an agreement on pnr, the commission is simply pushing ahead, funding the creation of an eu pnr with eu money and creating a fait accompli. i wonder if this is the commission’s idea of better law-making. i would call it legislation by stealth. finally, i would call on the latvian presidency to make the adoption of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive an absolute priority, madam prime minister. finally adopting a european law on equal treatment after so many years would really be the best possible answer to the homophobic and derogatory remarks of the president of latvia on lgbti people and the europride event in june this year in riga. madam prime minister, i hope the latvian presidency will achieve that and put the european motto into practice. we are united in diversity – and i see you agree.
grexit yes, brexit no: the eu is not a party to the treaty these two items should be high on your agenda. - why? - why? you see that the greek debt is over 300 billion euros, almost twice the gross national product. to even come close to a repayment, the country will have to score several percent economic growth for many years. i'm afraid that won't work. that is why a grexit with partial debt cancellation and a return to the old currency with devaluation is the best instrument. then there's some hope. there will be no such thing if the country remains under the heavy discipline of the demanding eurozone. the european union must also prevent britain from leaving the european union at all costs. the eu would lose one of its core countries. this will have far-reaching financial and socioeconomic effects as well as sociological effects. the british sobriety and willingness to reform should be exemplary to many. we must follow that example in the eu. so there's a lot of work in store for your presidency.
the terrible events in paris and nigeria over the past week have made it painfully clear that islamic terrorism is reaching from the heart of africa to the heart of europe. it is sowing death and destruction in the unscrupulous drive to subject the world to an islamic caliphate. the latvian presidency must therefore be fully committed to the fight against islamic extremism. i call on the president to seek cooperation with israel and egypt, the two states which can ensure stability in the middle east. i would like to refer to president al-sisi's speech to the clergy at al-azhar university in cairo, in which he called for a radical reversal of islam so that it would become an example of peace and order for non-muslims too, rather than a source of violence and chaos. i also point to his historic visit to the coptic church at christmas. i ask the latvian president to pay attention to education in egypt, which is essential to reversing the process of radicalisation. and i ask for special attention to be paid to the fight against extremism in libya. libya is now the area where terrorists have free reign, the area from which mali, nigeria and egypt, but also europe, are threatened by unscrupulous, heavily armed murderers. that is why stopping mass emigration from north africa must also be a priority under this presidency. the european countries, egypt and israel, can fight it.
in the context of the western showdown with russia over ukraine, it is frivolous to portray the kremlin as internationally isolated. the growing russian power and influence in the middle east over the last six months speaks a different language. and that was congratulated by president putin in two key powers in the region, namely turkey and iran. in a clever move, moscow has swapped the south stream project for the turkish stream project. the turkish prime minister davutoglu is already celebrating that, as in the past, all roads lead to rome, now all energy routes pass through turkey. russia is also offering to become iran's financial and energy partner. thanks to these positions of power in the middle east, the eu now has a much-needed kremlin for diplomatic solutions to the syrian civil war and the iranian nuclear issue. madam high representative, what is the eu's strategy in relation to this russian strategy in the middle east? that is a very urgent problem if we are to move forward.
for the ecr group earlier this week, the archbishop of jos, ignatius kaigama, complained about the "ignorance, the ignorance of the west about the real danger posed by boko haram". and the archbishop wondered where the solidarity of the west with nigeria, which is suffering so bloodyly from continuing waves of islamist terrorism, had gone. and you mentioned it, too, high representative. last monday, on the same day, the nigerian minister of defence stated that his military was losing the war against boko haram. he said that only an international coalition could provide a military solution. you also mentioned that, the immediate area. and that while nigeria's immediate neighbors niger, chad and cameroon are not on the ground either, military, or wanting to be for boko haram. you spoke, high representative, of humanitarian and military response. i am heartbroken as you watch the dangerous destabilization of this region around nigeria. i hope there will be a strong european response, because it looks very sad. and then we also talk about the connections between the nigerian army and boko haram.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, high representative, colleagues, the horrific violence of jihadist terrorism came awfully close to home last week, when charlie hebdo journalists were slaughtered and when people who were doing something as innocent as buying groceries were targeted because of their jewish identity. open diverse societies threaten the misguided dogma of violent islamism. therefore, we must be even more resilient in defending that openness. not only do these extremists select symbols of freedom of expression – a universal human right – but in nigeria, girls’ education or any education at all is the prime target of boco haram, which literally means ‘forbidden book’ or ‘western education is forbidden’. forcing people to adhere to one’s ideology with such extreme violence is the clearest sign of weakness imaginable. back in 2011, when i was an observer to the presidential elections in nigeria, volunteers of the youth service corps were killed in terrorist attacks. the youth service corps actively volunteered to help run the elections, and as such the attack marked an attack on all sons and daughters of nigeria. this week, by using a child as a suicide bomber, new levels of barbarism and a lack of humanity have been shown. we condemn these attacks in the strongest possible terms and send our condolences to the families of the victims. it is important in europe that we are fully aware of the global nature of the jihadist terror, in which perpetrators and victims come from all corners of the world. it is also important to recognise that in nigeria the impact of terrorism has become the rule rather than the exception. we must play an active role to end the brutalities and eliminate is, al-qaeda, boco haram and their affiliated networks.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, one has to be objective. what has happened since minsk? did russia really try to show good will? did russia really try to help broker peace in east ukraine? did russia really try to monitor its border and prevent irregular troops and others from entering eastern ukraine? no, that has not happened. has there been any positive sign from putin concerning the crimea? none. nothing has led to a positive outcome up till now. there will be no astana conference because minsk did not produce anything substantial. i think that the sanctions should do the work, and the sanctions are working – together with the low oil prices – so the russian economy is in trouble. i am not happy because of that, but i hope that it will hurt putin enough to be sensible and indeed go to the negotiating table, wherever that table is, whether it is in public or in private, and produce results. only if there are results on the ground – and that means the recognition that ukraine is an independent nation with internationally-recognised borders – can we go further. that is what we should do now. we can try to help the people in the donbass, and for that we can try to help ukraine to reform. that is essential, because otherwise there will be a kind of ukraine fatigue where people say ‘ukraine again?’ so we should help them. it should come from kiev itself, but the sanctions should stand and should work further, together with the economy. putin will not listen to reason. he will probably listen to the economy.
the new ukrainian government is setting itself the task of implementing an ambitious reform package. it is necessary to make this practical as soon as possible. moreover, it must be a reform based on the principle of inclusiveness. a pluralistic society, which is true to the european values for which the maidan uprising began. these reforms are being hampered by the ongoing conflict in the east. the failure of russia and the separatists to implement the minsk agreements is alarming. this shows once again that the sanctions imposed by the eu are still relevant and that we must stick to them. finally, it should be clear that the netherlands will not rest until objective evidence is provided for the attempt to crash mh17 and those responsible are brought to justice. i therefore urge that the international investigation team be given full cooperation and access and that the bottom be raised. i would like to hear from the high representative how she sees her role in this.
i would also like to thank all those who have worked hard in recent years to make the european year of development aid a success. i can assure you that the campaign offices of the euro-critical parties in the eu have been bursting with champagne on the occasion of this european year of development aid. it has never been easier to show our voters what the eu is and what it stands for. instead of feeling sorry for the european taxpayer, the eu is going to stage a soviet-style propaganda circus for vague plans to give away european money in corrupt countries far away. this plan will be a shock to voters, especially in countries that have been hit by a tax on their eu contribution. so i ask you: don't carry out this plan! forget about this year's celebration. in conclusion, the following points are important: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. after all, it has been proven that aid does not help. development is the result of the efforts of a society. aid cannot add to or take away from that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, egypt itself made commitments through its new constitution. in this constitution, which is better than the previous one, human rights have their place, including equality between men and women. therefore egypt has to live up to the commitments it has itself made. i agree with all the previous speakers that we, as the european union, should be on the side of those people who are fighting for freedom in a democratic way and are now being tried – to our concern – on the basis of emergency laws. i would recall what charles tannock said, that egypt will play a vital position in the arab world – and so it should. after the presidential elections we will see parliamentary elections and it would be of great benefit if they were free and fair because this is another milestone in the process leading to real democracy. let us also see what, apart from being vigilant, we can do to help egypt to respect human rights, for instance through the european neighbourhood programme. maybe the high representative can see what we can do together with egypt to promote human rights.
for the greens/efa group four years ago, the egyptians - or at least they tried to - liberated themselves from dictator mubarak. that was welcomed in this house, without asking how mubarak could have remained in power for so long. then they elected morsi. those were elections that went more or less reasonably, not great and not to our liking in terms of outcome. because there is no european who says: how happy we were with president morsi. but it was there. then morsi gave himself extra rights. we were not at all happy about that, for we had made agreements with him about the building up of his country. morsi gave himself extra rights and the response was a military coup. that is not what this house wanted to see. some people said, it is very, very good that there has been a military coup. and now we're dealing with this military regime. i'm not saying it was good in the past. i'm not saying we should go back to mubarak, nor that we should go back to morsi. but i hear a shifting tone in this debate between six months ago and now. we are now talking about egypt as a geopolitical partner, egypt as a player in the mediterranean and egypt as a country that must be able to protect itself against terrorists, especially in the light of what has just happened in paris. i find that last equation really shocking. it is not possible for us to say, because we are afraid - and we are right to be afraid -: the egyptian's freedom should be given a second thought, because it was actually quite easy for mr mubarak to keep his people a little calm. because sisi is mubarak 2.0. and at a time when the egyptian embassy has three human rights activists on offer here and everyone in this house wants to speak, we are awake enough to understand that human rights activists are never hired by the embassy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. schoolchildren, whose only wish that day was simply to go to school. the dutch language does not have enough words to express my horror at this and my thoughts go out to the parents, families, friends and girlfriends of the victims and to pakistani society as a whole. pakistan's fight against terrorism is also our fight. that is a fight against all terrorist groups, without exception. we must be ready to help pakistan in that fight. but the fight against terrorism and religious extremism is also a fight against the soil that feeds it. this includes fighting poverty, ensuring religious tolerance, strengthening the rule of law and free access to education. as malala, sakharov prize winner, said in this house: there is poverty, there is lack of freedom, there is fear, there is terrorism, but there is also hope!
in writing. i voted against this resolution on the situation in ukraine because the text is unbalanced. while the role of russia is rightly condemned, the role played by the eu in the escalation of the conflict in eastern ukraine is not recognised. the unilateral nature of the text does not indicate any reflection and self-reflection on the part of the eu and will rather have the opposite effect. this attitude of the european union towards ukraine has major geopolitical consequences. therefore, restraint and diligence are essential. the party for the animals also voted against the conclusion of an association agreement between the eu and ukraine, which did not guarantee human rights, animal welfare and the protection of nature and the environment. international security, human rights, democracy and the protection of our environment are always more important than short-sighted trade policy.
mr president, many people in europe are afraid, understandably, because the images of paris – but also other images that we see every day – are scary and intimidating. but our response to their fear should not be just symbolism or fake security. we should do what it takes and not just play to the gallery. first of all, we already have an extensive toolkit. we have the tools but we need to evaluate whether we have all the tools that we need and whether we have the right tools or we need bigger or smaller tools. maybe some tools are superfluous. we also need to assess whether all those measures being decided by parliament, and also by the government leaders when they meet in brussels, are subsequently implemented in the member states. they make a lot of grand statements but i would like to know what the state of implementation of the measures is. i think we should have a scoreboard as in the internal market. on specific topics: regarding pnr, my group, as we signalled two weeks ago by letter, is open to discussion on an eu pnr, but there are two simple and clear conditions. one is that whatever proposal we discuss, it must meet the test of necessity and proportionality. that is a legal requirement, not a political one. secondly, the council needs to adopt the directive on data protection. it has been on their table for a year and a half. it is not that difficult. parliament has voted; it will take them 30 seconds to pass it. on encryption: i hear a lot of scary and worrying proposals about a ban on encryption or the obligation to hand over encryption keys. they are dangerous proposals. what is next? will it become a criminal offence if you have a lock on the front door of your house? because that too would be very useful in the fight against terrorism. we are on a slippery slope. finally, i am glad to see that we are all united in our determination to fight people who want to destroy our democracy through violent means. but i would like the council and the commission to be equally determined when it comes to defending democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights against threats from the inside. i call on the commission to put forward proposals – as my group has asked many times – for binding instruments for ensuring and enforcing fundamental rights and the rule of law. binding instruments, commissioner!
of course we are concerned about the fact that european jihadis are fighting alongside is in iraq and syria. let us not forget: the executioner of the is is a brit! we call him jihadi john. it is understandable that we are concerned about attacks here in europe, and so am i. but we also have to be very concerned about what jihadi john and his friends are doing in syria and in iraq. i do not understand why, if we reject this, if we think: what should we do about this, all our european heads of government do not know how soon they should travel to saudi arabia to pay their respects to the late king. i'm not going to saudi arabia! the country that helps finance terrorism, the country that has barbaric practices like isis, the country that does not shy away from whipping people, cutting off hands and feet, handing out death sentences. ladies and gentlemen, that must be the beginning of our anti-terrorism policy!
western europe is being ravaged by terror, by attacks, by murders, by rapes. jihadists and arms dealers are free to travel in the european union. turkey, saudi arabia and qatar are paying imams to preach hate. in european madrassas, children are trained for war against the infidels, against european norms and values, against us, against you and me. our citizens are sick of it. they are taking to the streets in milan, dresden and paris. and what is the european commission doing? she advocates more immigration from muslim countries, more immigration from backward cultures, more turkey. enough is enough! schengen has to stop, immigration has to stop, islamization has to stop. jihadists out, hate preachers out, terrorists out! i call on the european commission to stop immigration immediately and to re-establish internal borders.
i would like to return to the investment plan and perhaps save the discussion on greece for later. first of all, i would like to thank the commission very much for the investment plan. now, finally, there is room for investment after years of relentless focus on cutting back and cutting back. but, looking at the investment plan, we do have three fundamental objections and problems with the current proposals and we would like to hear the commission's, commissioner katainen's, reaction to them. first of all: too little democratic control. the plans do state that this investment plan must also contribute to the overall objectives of the eu. but that's too vague. if we now look at where the money is coming from, namely a part of the european budget, does that mean that an investment plan with a new steering board is being set up? but the big question is: what exactly are those plans gonna look like? it is crucial for us that the european parliament is fully involved in co-legislation, that we can decide on the rules of expenditure. secondly: too little regard for the public interest. if you look at the list submitted by the various member states, it goes in all directions, but there are certainly millions going to coal plants, millions to nuclear plants. the antwerp ring is being taken out of order again, when we know how much of a problem this is in belgium, in flanders. i see my flemish colleague confirming that. so how do we make sure that this kind of spending is really for the public good and not just private spending? thirdly, in short, it is not enough to get the european economy moving. there has not been enough thought given to new revenue sources, such as lost revenue from tax evasion. why is that kind of new revenue not being used for this package?
as a member of the epp group, as a member of the committee on transport and as a dutchman, i welcome the juncker commission's plan. i often disagree with mr eickhout, but it is time we in europe started thinking in terms of challenges, and not just in terms of threats. we have been thinking in terms of threats for a very long time and it is now time for the challenges. but i say to you, mr president: the path of ideals is paved with foot hooks and clamps. one of those constraints is that the transport sector is allowed to provide almost half of the money through the connecting europe facility. but we are happy to do so, and we do so in dutch, because we assume that we will get a lot of money back as a multiplier and also for traditional infrastructure. i understand that the internet and the energy union require a lot of money, but we also want traditional infrastructure. it will be a challenge to convince the private market of the juncker plan - look at the interest rates. and i have a question for the council: how much money has the president of the council already raised from the member states to support the juncker plan?
i am fully in favour of the juncker plan, for investment and for taking steps towards a real economy. but i do have a few comments. first of all, i think it's too much of a stand-alone plan. we have 460 billion real money in our structural and investment funds and the relationship between those funds and the plan is completely unclear. i also think that much more needs to be done. we have experience with risk sharing facilities, jeremy programs, etc. so much more can be done with the existing financial provisions in our budgets. secondly, i am happy about the additionality. we must be very careful that the debt already decentralised in various projects is not taken over by the eib and does not generate additional real investment. the criteria are actually very vague. my question to the council and to you is this: now, suppose the money ends up in the old member states and not in the new ones. is that acceptable? 80 to 90% end up in some member states and not in others. is that what you're talking about? and may i also mention the crossborder projects? that is what europe is for. do these types of projects get priority? can the council give an answer to that?
in writing. today we are debating the 'plane of action for a new international climate agreement in paris'. and the word "schedule" is the problem. it is exemplary of the ostrich policy of the new european commission in all matters relating to climate change. the commission does not take this problem seriously and follows its own road map: first, she is removing the post of climate change commissioner. the second. she ignores intensive livestock farming as a major factor in climate change. the third. it subsidizes overproduction of meat and milk, which is responsible for 14% of greenhouse gas emissions. 4. other it is sticking its head in the sand and denying that the agricultural policy that has been focused on bulk production for years is at odds with a responsible climate policy. if we really want to address climate change in paris this year, we also need to look at our own food consumption and shift to a more sustainable and plant-based consumption pattern. we must stop robbing people in developing countries of their farmland and food to satisfy the hunger of european intensive livestock farming. it's better to grow local, non-toxic, non-gmo plant foods. better for the climate, better for the environment, and better for animals and people worldwide.
mr president, internet governance is a contradiction in terms because we should all want the global internet to remain open without unnecessary barriers, but for that to be the case decisions on many levels must be taken the right way and the multi-stakeholder model should be given more meaning in our times. we need eu leadership not to leave governance to russia and china and other countries whose governments often seek to gain legitimacy at international forums like the igf for their isolating, repressing and balkanising actions. eu leadership should also ensure that net neutrality is guaranteed here and then globally, and we should work together with internet users, ngos and global partners to make human rights and fundamental freedoms applicable online as they are offline. together we can preserve and safeguard the open internet to allow its opportunities to benefit all of us now and in the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – as our colleague probably knows, just because a whistleblower has revealed the abuse of power in the united states by the intelligence services, this does not justify the kremlin’s repression of speech, journalists, whistleblowers and opposition figures, whether they speak out online or offline. furthermore, russia requires data storage in russia, and thereby it undermines and harms the open internet as we know it, not only for russian citizens but for internet users worldwide.
mr president, i am very glad that we have this proposal: after seven years we now have a resolution. i would like to thank pilar del castillo and her colleagues very much. this igf – united nations forum gives a possibility for full debate also for the less-developed world. this is very important, to have them in. and i want to ask mr ansip whether the european union cannot support non-governmental participation from the developing world: not only governments bringing their ideas, but having people engaged. maybe i can get an answer in that direction. my second point is that i myself participated twice, in vilnius and in athens, and what i have seen there is that a lot of communication with all those partners and national parliaments is possible, and that is why i am a little sad about the fact that the parliamentary delegation has gone down and down. this is not the right signal; it is a bad signal to the internet community, and that is why we should put it on the agenda again. (the president cut off the speaker)
president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the eu has been hit by several meat scandals. consumers were shocked, and rightly so. food safety must be guaranteed and such fraud must be tackled with all the necessary vigour. the european parliament's call for the labelling of processed meat products by origin will not prevent fraud, however. if someone wants to sell horse meat for beef, a label is not going to stop him. europe has some of the strictest food safety standards in the world. all products manufactured or imported into europe must comply with these standards. the meat processing industry uses different meat suppliers from several countries. there are also frequent changes of supplier, which would require a constant adjustment of a label. this makes the regulation practically unworkable. the commission's investigation shows that this measure increases production costs by up to 50%. such costs are borne not only by the trader but also by the consumer. i am therefore not in favour of mandatory labelling of the origin of meat in processed products. producers may voluntarily put this on their labels if they wish to do so and if they can distinguish themselves on the market. in conclusion, i would like to say that the call seems to be sympathetic, but it is the wrong instrument. this is unnecessary rule-making that does not solve the real problems. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).)
"blue card" is the answer. mr wojciechowski, thank you for your question. it may surprise you, but no consumer thinks the same. so many people, so many desires. one wants to know the origin, the other does not want to pay extra for it if the origin is indicated on the label. i am therefore in favour of not imposing origin labelling; producers may indicate the origin on a voluntary basis. and if you're such a supporter of labeling your meat, then you just buy products that say it.
mr president, every year millions of animals are dragged across europe like sledgehammers. these animals may be packed for days on end in crowded trains, cattle cars, planes, or boats. their journey usually ends at the slaughterhouse. why would you do that? because slaughtering in romania is a few cents cheaper. or because parma ham has to be made in parma from fresh ham. a proper origin label with information on the place of birth, rearing, upbringing and slaughter of the animals makes these absurd animal transports visible. such a label gives consumers the opportunity to choose genuine local products and makes meat and meat fraud more traceable. we are very much in favour of this proposal. we would also like to see information on animal welfare, which is totally lacking as far as we are concerned, and we would like to see the meat of more species, including horse meat, added. i also believe that agricultural subsidies should be abolished! (the speaker agrees to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. it is clear that consumers want that diversification too. they prefer products that are made in their own region, so they know where they came from. at the moment it is absolutely impossible to see where the salami or the pizza was produced and under what conditions. we think it is important that you put that on the label too, so that consumers simply have the opportunity to make a really good choice without having to go through long animal transports beforehand.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fishery products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97) food fraud is fought with equal enforcement across the eu, effective inspection, not with unnecessary, useless extra bureaucracy. the processed fresh meat must already be traceable and must be labelled according to its origin. no double bureaucracy, you know. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are labelled in accordance with the rules of origin. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. this is leading to expensive food products at a time of increasing scarcity and economic recession in parts of the eu. our dutch pea soup and your pizza will be up by over 10 percent. i'm not talking about 50 percent. don't do this to the consumer. it does not want to be bound by this large price increase. don't do this to our caterer, our caterer and our butcher, and don't do this to the farmer!
madam president, in june 2012 the international organisation of employers walked into the ilo conference with their corporate lawyers in a grossly unprecedented move. after decades of jurisprudence, they challenged the fact that the right to strike was part of the ilo convention on the freedom of association, and social dialogue on the international level has been gridlocked ever since. these employers want to take away the only tool workers have in order to stand up for themselves. after the catastrophe in dhaka, bangladesh, in 2013 thousands of workers swamped the streets to demand safer working conditions. because of the right to strike they were able to stand up for safe working conditions and against fraudulent employers. also in europe, we have seen workers’ rights being weakened by the crisis: social dialogue is under pressure and unions are increasingly being set aside. this attack on the right to strike is a direct attack on fundamental social rights in the eu and abroad. without the right to strike, collective bargaining is nothing more than collective begging. dear commissioner, i heard your support for the routes for bringing this case to the international court of justice, and i applaud your intentions. my question is what can you do in order to get more votes for these routes?
it is five to twelve for all those young people who are eager to show their talents on the labour market but who are not given the chance. in many member states, youth unemployment rates are alarmingly high. and what is more, these countries are often systematically forced to cut back. so they have said, at the very least, not to make a penny to help their own young people get jobs. and so the danger of a lost generation and wasted talents is lurking. by making one billion euros available to the member states as an advance payment, we can begin to implement the plans which should lead to new jobs, and your initiative, madam commissioner, is therefore a step in the right direction. but to develop the european knowledge-based economy with sustainable jobs requires much more resources. the investment plan will have to play a crucial role in this. the evaluation of projects will have to take a close look at the actual level of good, decent jobs in each member state, including for young people and in the medium term. commissioner, your proposal is a bit of a stretch, but it deserves all our support. i hope that the council will agree to it soon, but i would also like to hear from you how you intend to ensure that further investment takes account of the jobs that young people so badly need.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the first 'pepper report' was presented in 1991, almost 25 years ago. i was seven years old. so i won't claim that i've consciously experienced that, but i can look back on what's happened over the last 25 years. if one thing is certain, it is that we here in europe, and especially in the european parliament, are fully convinced of the potential added value of financial participation for employees. employees feel more involved in the company, are more connected to the company's long-term prospects and are more motivated to commit to that company. this is also reflected in the improved results that companies achieve as a result. and that, as the commissioner himself has rightly pointed out, leads to more jobs, more employment. so that's all good. at the same time, we see that over the past 25 years, systems of financial participation by employees have developed in different ways and at different rates in different member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore welcome the european commission's plan, the five-point plan, particularly as regards raising awareness and providing better information, because we all want to see more financial participation in a good framework with adequate protection for workers, but as europe, as you rightly said, we do not have everything to say about that. i think we should fully endorse your approach. i have three questions to add to that. 1) how can we avoid that financial participation replaces existing participation structures in some cases? 2) does the development of financial participation correspond to the increasingly flexible labour market? and how do you see the participation of temporary workers, for example? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). that is the population of cities like emmeloord and dalfsen in my country. and if we add to that the number of citizens who are permanently injured in road accidents, we get a figure that is comparable to that of quite large cities in europe. these figures, mr president, can and must be reduced. and that can be done by better infrastructure, safe and intelligent cars and, above all, better information and assistance. but now also through this proposal to tackle road traffic offences effectively and across borders. it did not help, mr president, what the european commission did, namely to bring legal proceedings against the council and this parliament in order to defend its own right and influence. i didn't think that was a school example of tackling an urgent social problem. but i hope that the re-adoption of this proposal will achieve the real objective of the directive, which is to promote road safety in europe. traffic offences can now be enforced more easily across borders, especially those offences which are most frequent and cause the most damage. and then it 's about: speeding, running a red light, and driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. it is also important that road users know what they are up against and i hope, mr president, that article 8 of the directive will not prove to be a sham. article 8 deals with the provision of information to road users. i think that's crucial, because it's also about enforcement. fine, you have to. but it is also about good information so that everyone has a say in driving responsibly on the road.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs inés ayala sender, for all her work. we can say that we are now able to close a chapter with this vote. it is said that this was a school example of cooperation. however, i do not think the whole process is a good example of cooperation. we have actually wasted a great deal of time on all this and on the debate on the legal basis. i am very sorry that the council has actually fought a long battle over the legal basis and has not been able to get it right in the end. i'm glad we can move on now. i am very pleased that the directive contains provisions on data protection. but now it's time to implement. we have eight more countries to go before that implementation. and more importantly: how do we deal with enforcement? because we have not yet taken the necessary steps to do so. so, in the 2016 review, we need to take another step. we are getting there, because road safety is getting better in europe, but the way it is i would not want to give a beauty award. at least we can move on now, to 2016!
madam president, thank you very much. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the s&d group. road safety in europe is an important issue. i 've heard it said by a colleague of dalen 's . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we in the epp group think it is a good thing that we can conclude this matter this afternoon with a clear approach and a clear implementation. in fairness, we have all been the victims of cross-border traffic offences at one time or another. and you used to think, "we'll get away with it", but that'll be over now. yes, we as motorcyclists have to take a little bit of a break, but road safety comes first. the history of the proposal has been said. it has taken too long, too much legal wrangling between the institutions. just a few more questions. first of all, we're looking at eight traffic violations. they are the eight most important. but what about the other traffic violations? for example, the netherlands, germany and belgium are now exchanging more traffic data. first the question of implementation, and then the question of enforcement. mr eickhout has already asked about it. are the computer systems in the various countries in order? we have taken several measures here which later went wrong because of the computer systems. finally, it is good that denmark, the united kingdom and ireland are now also participating on an equal footing.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. i would say that we should wait another year for the elections, because i think it is important that we continue to stress that elections should not be delayed and that two terms for kabila are two terms. we must keep stressing that. we must pay close attention to what is going on in the congo and provide protection for human rights activists. but what we also need to do is we need to have our own conflict minerals law that actually gives teeth. what we have now, mrs mogherini, is voluntary self-certification for a few european companies. what this house wanted was legislation that was binding on all products and that would also lead to sustainable mining in conflict areas. because how do you get the war out of a country? one way is to get the money out of the conflict. my question to you, mrs mogherini, is this: how do we make this legislation strong and effective?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we can speak out loud; we can speak harsh words; but it is now time to say ‘yes’ to mrs merkel and president hollande. i think this is indeed the moment where russia can prove if it is a peaceful nation or not. it is not necessary to draw the whole picture; the picture is quite clear. there was already a minsk, and we need to have a minsk ii to implement minsk i. but let us do it! i will be very brief. if putin does not want to take the olive branch he will be severely punished. that is the only way. because any other way, we accept that ukraine should be crippled. and ukraine should not be crippled. what kind of sanctions? what kind of actions? for me and my group nothing is excluded, but we will debate it after minsk ii.
i would like to make two points in this debate. first of all: europe, you know. the european commission is still negotiating agreements with acp countries and regions on development cooperation. these agreements are made in particular with ministries of economic affairs or finance or planning. the parliaments of these acp countries are not really involved or are barely involved. it should be our task to help our colleagues in the various african parliaments to give real shape to the control of these kinds of programmes. i think that we can add value to the joint parliamentary assembly. the second point concerns the future. i think it is a good thing that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have a collection here that you really have to call colonial. i would like to maintain the relationship with these different regions, but not in the form of the acp, when we are in need of renewal in 2020. it's a little strange to continue to maintain our view of the world in what used to be our colonies. i would therefore like to invite ourselves and the european commissioners to reflect on how we can start to take a regional approach here in 2020, looking at countries in their region, even if their neighbours are not acp members.
mr president, it will happen to you: you're 15 years old and because of some illness you're ritually having your external genitalia removed without medical necessity. unwillingly, by force. a disfigurement of the feminine. female genital mutilation is a terrible phenomenon that must be tackled with all the necessary vigour by sovereign countries. over 125 million people are victims worldwide, half a million in the eu. in many countries, genital mutilation is a crime. so it is in the netherlands. yet my country has almost 28 000 circumcised women. eighty percent of these women are from muslim countries, such as somalia, egypt and eritrea. with our open borders, we not only import hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, but also a terrible phenomenon like genital mutilation. we are not helping these women with the politically correct chatter and the hollow phrases of this commission. anyone who really wants to end genital mutilation will not be able to avoid mentioning the role of islam in these misogynistic and barbaric practices. stop the mass immigration and the islamization of our continent.
madam president, when we speak of counter-terrorism policies i hear too many hollow phrases and commonplaces on the rule of law and civil liberties. colleagues, it is not good enough – and i am addressing the council in particular – to pay lip service to the rule of law in civil liberties, because what it actually means is that there are limits. it does not mean that we can stretch the rule of law and fit in all the measures that we like; it means governments cannot have unlimited and unchecked powers, and it seems that many people have forgotten that. alde is pleased that we have reached a compromise on counter-terrorism. compromises are never easy or pretty, and i hear the greens’ criticism but i hope that next time they will be on board when we are negotiating a compromise because parliament, unlike the council, is able to compromise and achieve results. we need security measures but they must be tailor-made and evidence-based, not based on assumptions, ideology or gut feeling. alde will not side with the trigger-happy cowboys who support any repressive measure without evidence. nor will alde side with those who, in a kneejerk reflex, oppose any security measure, equally without evidence. there is a hard-fought compromise on the eu passenger name record (pnr) scheme on the table today and we are committed to working swiftly on this dossier, but it is essential that the commission and council deliver. the commission, mr timmermans, must do its job – do not just look to parliament – and you must demonstrate the necessity and the proportionality of the measures proposed. we cannot support a system for the massive and indiscriminate collection of personal data without the evidence for necessity and proportionality and without adequate safeguards for citizens’ rights. lastly, we are pleased that an in-depth evaluation must be an integral part of the april security package because, in the past 15 years, a long list of measures has been adopted but there has never been an evaluation of their effectiveness and of what we have in our toolkit. have the measures been implemented by the member states? i think, mr timmermans, that evaluating policies is also part of better law making.
the european council will meet tomorrow on three important items on the agenda, and i shall be giving the following opinions: the greek debt crisis. tsipras is absolutely right. the approach adopted has failed completely. that 's why: we have to pay off debt in full, no extra credit, and greece must exit the euro immediately. islamic extremism, you know. thousands of jihadis are coming in as asylum seekers. frontex is a total bubble. that 's why: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. finally, there is ukraine. we do not want a new cold war, and certainly not a direct war with russia. that 's why: de-escalation in ukraine, no weapons to a government that commits war crimes, and no money to a bankrupt country that is sick with corruption.
in writing. i voted against the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal for three obvious reasons: - all fisheries agreements between the eu and developing countries are designed to maximise the exploitation of seas and oceans in order to cover up the failure of the european fisheries policy and to keep the european fishing fleet afloat. this is at the expense of animals, nature, the environment and the people on the ground. destructive european fisheries policy cannot be sustained by fishing more or elsewhere; it is better to clean up the mess and stop the subsidised overfishing. - west african waters are already severely overfished, while illegal fishing and lack of research on fish stocks make up-to-date data unavailable. this is particularly true of the vulnerable bluefin tuna. it is irresponsible to let european vessels fish there; - senegal itself is in the process of introducing new legislation to reduce their fishing pressure; it is a contradiction to agree on a fisheries partnership agreement at this particular moment.
in writing. - the vvd commends the us senate for the very objective and candid report on the cia's role in waterboarding, rendition, etc. it is welcome if the eu member states and other countries would mirror the us approach. the vvd has therefore supported the cia resolution, which means that it is the judiciary in the member states which ultimately decides whether people are prosecuted and governments and parliaments themselves who decide what lessons they draw from this affair.
in writing. — the greens/efa group today voted against the joint motion for a resolution on anti-terrorism measures, as the resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the 4 bigger political groups provides carte blanche for eu governments to scale back personal freedoms with measures that will fail to properly respond to the terrorist threat. instead of pushing for effective measures, the usual suspects who have been continually pushing for mass surveillance and data retention are using the paris attacks as an excuse to bulldoze through these measures, despite any evidence that they will prove effective in countering the terrorist threat. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy would focus on targeted surveillance of real suspects and ensuring security authorities have the means and resources to focus on specific risks and concrete suspicions, to follow any leads immediately, and to efficiently exchange information about dangerous individuals. this is what we should be trying to achieve. there is also a need to tackle radicalisation in schools and prisons. finally we are missing a call for a legal definition of profiling. stepping up mass surveillance will undermine security and is instead a victory for fundamentalists, who are combatting precisely such democratic freedoms.
in writing. - the vvd is convinced of the need to cooperate very closely within the eu and also with other countries, such as the usa, in combating and preventing terrorism. the vvd does not believe that it is necessary to create new institutions or to allocate new community powers at the present time, since each country is best placed to combat and prevent terrorism on its own territory, especially in the cities. the need for the close cooperation referred to above has led the vvd, despite its reservations about a central role for brussels, to vote in favour of the anti-terrorism resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, a disaster of historic proportions is taking place in our neighbourhood. on top of the assad regime’s ongoing use of violence, including the use of barrel bombs against their own syrian citizens, daesh (is) has added new dimensions of unbearable horror and suffering to millions of people’s lives – people who want a future for their children, safety and freedom, just like you and i. daesh’s barbaric violence sent two million iraqis on the run in 2014 alone. we saw them with our own eyes as we visited northern iraq, but most areas throughout iraq are not even accessible to humanitarian aid organisations because they are so violent. and we see a downward spiral of despair and suffering that, in turn, helps the success of recruiters for jihadist organisations. now minorities are being specifically targeted in a way that can only be seen as attempted ethnic cleansing. christians, yazidis, kurds, shabak and others, but most of all iraqis, are in a very bad situation, and their ill-treatment, like that of lgbt people, must stop. for girls and women who are violently abused by militants, there is no specific psychological help. for youth, there is mostly no education. so, i ask you, when does the risk of a lost generation turn into a sombre reality? we cannot allow this to happen. the situation of refugees and internally displaced persons is already dire. i have seen little children’s feet on frozen ground, but with rising temperatures the risk of epidemics also rises. we need a comprehensive approach because we expect the liberation of mosul soon, but that will also send many more people fleeing violence again, and even more assistance will be required. if we believe, as i do, that it is in our interest to take action and that domestic and foreign threats are increasingly blurred, we must work not only on increased eu efforts but also with partners, notably in the middle east, to end the horrors of islamic state and alleviate the human suffering.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to say that i am a bit disappointed because commissioner timmermans said that we do not need a protracted institutional debate about mechanisms. i think that is exactly what we need because the fundamental rights and the fundamental values that this union is based on are laid down in article 2 of the treaties. it is the most important article. it is the highest article in the hierarchy and yet the enforcement of that article is the weakest of all the articles in the treaty. i remember the debates about the eurozone. we said at the time that we did not need binding instruments in the eurozone, we have a gentleman’s agreement and all the member states will simply have to live up to their commitments. well, we have seen what that led to. i think it is about time that this european union, which is developing into a political union, equips itself with the instruments to enforce those values that it is so proud of. we should not only be talking – not only words, no matter if they are in five or six languages – but we should have action in all the languages. we do need binding instruments, not just conventions, not just silent diplomacy, colloquia – we need binding instruments. that is why my group, the alde group, has proposed the democratic governance pact. we have offered it to the commissioner and we have debated it since. it can be adopted on the basis of existing treaties and would be similar to the stability and growth pact. it would have similar mechanisms to ensure the enforcement of the values that are all dear to us. for example, we have devised one instrument – and i will show it to you, it looks like a bingo card, it is actually a scoreboard. we have scored all 28 member states against a set of indicators, like freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, equal treatment, freedom of religion, etc. we have been nice and we have not put the names of the member states here. i can only tell you that the ones with only green scores are denmark and sweden but the rest we will keep anonymous. if we did this exercise with parliament, with the council, the commission and with the national parliaments every year – and here i take up your proposal for an annual debate simultaneously in all the institutions about the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states, because there i concur very much with the commissioner – all member states should be treated equally and should be scrutinised in the same way. there would be no more debates about single member states here, or indeed monitoring mechanisms for bulgaria and romania as we have them, or only the candidate member states. no, all member states should be scrutinised. we will scrutinise not just their budget. we will not talk only about debt and budget deficits but will also talk about the enforcement of our shared values and make the european union a community of values.
the latvian presidency explains to us once again that the council has decided to hold a discussion once a year on the state of fundamental rights in europe. mr sippel called it a 'lunch', a 'lunch'. commissioner timmermans explains that he does not want to do his job in an ideological and impartial way, as a real referee should. the only problem is that a referee refers to a game that has rules. and they're missing here. you can't be impartial if you don't know what you're sticking to. and why do we not yet have the rules of the game for a european test of fundamental rights? because the political will is lacking. because we in this house are constantly asking ourselves whether we want to play politics with this. we dare call the beast by its name? do we dare to speak firmly to our friends? and the answer to that, apparently, is no. but where we are talking about budget deficits, we should also be talking about respect for the free press, freedom of association, anti-discrimination, and that is not happening. it happens when someone joins the football club, but as soon as someone joins the football club of 28 players, we say: you can cheat! mr president, that is not possible. and it is not possible for commissioner timmermans to say every time that we will get along with the existing rules. the existing rules are not being applied because the political will is lacking in the council and in this house. i would ask you to take steps to do that. i expect the latvian presidency to have the courage to make an evaluation of its own.
mr president, enough has been said by some people today, but the rule of law is the foundation of our society and the rule of law is what binds us together in europe. it cannot be stressed enough, not only for our own citizens, but also for the credibility of the eu as a whole. when we talk to candidate countries, when we talk to people and countries with whom we are entering into partnerships, agreements, we are still hammering on the rule of law. and rightly so, because without a well-functioning rule of law, no democracy can function, no economy can function. that is why it is important that we continue to preach it out there. practice what you preach. we must make sure that we keep our own affairs in order. i am glad you are here, mr timmermans, because two years ago, when you were the dutch foreign minister, you and three of your colleagues sent a letter on this subject, urging that more should be done in the field of fundamental freedoms within the eu as well. one year later, now about a year ago - and i would also like to congratulate mrs viviane reding for this - a new framework for fundamental rights within the eu has been drawn up within the possibilities offered by the treaty. my question to you, commissioner timmermans, is actually quite simple: i would like to ask the commissioner whether, in the light of the letter you sent two years ago, and in the light of the experience we have now, one year after the commission published its new communication on the framework for fundamental freedoms, is he satisfied with what is being done at the moment and is there any scope within the current framework to do something more to ensure that all countries, no matter where they are in europe, no matter what governments are in power, have fundamental freedoms at the top of the agenda?
blue-card question. – mr škripek, you were talking about values being imposed and about dictatorship, but is it not true that the referendum failed – fortunately i would say – because only 20% of people bothered to turn out? so that means that the vast majority of people in slovakia show a lot more respect for lgbt people than you just suggested.
president. - last christmas the dutch state secretary, mr teeven, said that it was not europe's job to rescue people from the mediterranean. he also said that he did not want to take in additional people from syrian refugee camps in the netherlands, because that would only compete with the refugees who are already in the netherlands and who also want to live comfortably. if i was a refugee and i had to choose between a big boat, which we now call a ghost ship, or a small rubber boat, i knew i'd get on that big boat. and what all this shows is that there's one thing that really doesn't work, and that's border control. because smugglers are always outsmarting us, and refugees are always looking for a way to get to safety. so we can talk about frontex here, but we should really talk about generous resettlement and access to safe places, also in europe.
president, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants entered the european union in 2014, smuggled in by smugglers or dragged ashore by frontex. frontex does not guard borders. frontex is a shuttle service. the eu is a catalyst for tragedy. what we already knew, of course, but what many here do not want to see, was confirmed again last week by the terrorists of the islamic state. the muslim terrorist group has smuggled 4,000 terrorists into the european union as asylum seekers. in reply to my written questions, the commission replied that we should not confuse asylum seekers with terrorists. it is a sign of a shocking naivety. and to top it off, frontex is also unable to identify terrorists. so, like all other illegal immigrants, they are now being brought to the european continent at their leisure. as far as i am concerned, there is only one direction that frontex should take, literally: i am not going to go into detail on the reasons for this. because so far, they haven't sent anyone back. it is absurd that we should knowingly and deliberately not only bring thousands of illegal immigrants onto our territory, but also welcome terrorists with open arms. we already have our hands full with our home grown islamic terrorists. let us not import them again, please. when will the commission realise that we must stop importing more terror? when will this madness end? we have to take responsibility to protect our citizens. they deserve that security. de-islamise, close the borders and stop mass immigration! enough is enough! (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for this question, mr president. do you know what the problem is with this european union? that the policy isn't working. we've seen this for years now, and yet we continue to do this. we continue to give more money to frontex, knowing that frontex does not guard the border, but only brings people in. we can't handle this influx of refugees. look at my own country. this year alone we have reached 40 000 asylum seekers. it just can't be. i can't believe you did that. enough is enough. it just has to end.
mr rugurika. - (fr) mr president, i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to give you the information you requested. the charge is that he should have given that information to the government. now he's in jail because let's face it it's actually quite convenient to jail a journalist who 'makes the government uncomfortable'. in its resolution, the european parliament calls for the speedy release of bob rugurika, because we see this as imprisonment to silence his voice, to stifle his voice. and we must also see this in the light of the forthcoming elections in burundi. this is to set the mood.
author. - mr president, saudi arabian liberal blogger raïf badawi was deemed medically incapable of enduring the remaining punishment of 1 000 lashes after receiving 50, and we needed no doctors’ reports or doctors’ assessments to confirm the barbaric nature of such corporal punishment which goes against un conventions that the saudi arabian authorities have themselves signed up to. in light of the broader human rights violations in saudi arabia that impact all citizens, but especially women and critics of the political system, its membership of the un human rights council frankly, and we can say it right here, is a farce. sadly, also in this house it is difficult to speak out jointly on the violations of human rights in saudi arabia and i urge all members of the european people’s party group to support the joint motion for a resolution that the other political groups have put forward. these blatant violations of raïf badawi’s rights must be jointly condemned and i think it is high time to rethink the sense of our relationship to saudi arabia. it is not a credible actor and ally in fighting islamic state when it has not only exported for decades the fundamentalist islamist views that this ideology is also based on, but also applies the same brutal violence, as an ordinary everyday punishment, that we condemn so strongly when the so-called islamic state terrorist group applies the same.
in writing. in a world on fire, where conflicts cross borders with no clear separation between good and evil forces, we must look for solutions. so far, military intervention in distant countries with cultures different from our own has mainly exacerbated conflicts and left countries in chaos. who are the coalition partners? who exactly are our allies and enemies and which countries are in double digits? what is the best way to combat acts of terrorism? is that by jet fighters or are there other means? we will have to monitor the situation in syria closely with the international legal community, but if we really want to show compassion for the victims of the civil war, we must first of all help syrian refugees. the sense of anger and powerlessness that we all feel is understandable but does not justify rash military action. fear is a bad counselor, but feelings of anger and retribution are just as bad.
if we have learned anything in the last few months, it is that the european union is first and foremost a political project. and a political project of vital importance, now that it's clear that geopolitics is back from the dead. a crucial tool in geopolitics is energy. we have seen this again this week with the bizarre gas deal that hungarian prime minister orban is seeking to conclude with russia, and the threat by gazprom to stop gas supplies via ukraine. but apart from europe's enormous dependence on energy, we have two other problems: our energy is too polluting and too expensive. only a strong european energy union can solve these three energy problems. unity not only gives strength in relations with third countries, but also gives clarity and certainty to investors. billions are waiting to be invested in europe's energy infrastructure. we must create the right conditions for this, in order to create the necessary smart and large networks. my group very much welcomes the emphasis which the commission is placing on the further completion of the internal energy market. but then we'll have to act. unlike the previous commission, the current team must have the courage to bite when member states fail to implement legislation. my group is critical of the governance proposals. of course, this is sensitive in some member states, but let us not make the same mistake as in economic policy, where the worst financial crisis since the 1930s was needed to give europe the right resources. let us learn from that lesson and choose the community at once. finally, over the next few years, more than one trillion, or a thousand billion euros, will be invested in energy infrastructure. those investments have to be good right away, so they're targeted at that low-carbon economy of tomorrow. i think the european commission should play a more active role in this.
mr president, i know that the commission promised discontinuity but, mr šefčovič, i was not aware you were promising that within just one paper. if i read the first two pages and i see the analysis of the problems, it is all very well analysed. then i read the rest and i see hardly any proposals. so there is the discontinuity of the commission: good in the analysis, bad in the proposals. i will give you just one example because i only have one minute. just on efficiency: you say in your press conference, efficiency first. ok, we agree. then on page 12, what are you proposing? the commission will encourage member states to give energy efficiency primary consideration. ok, you will encourage member states. it is already pretty weak. then we go to the action points, page 20. apparently the eu has set itself the target of at least 27% energy savings. could you explain to me where the eu decided that? or do you mean the council decided that? because parliament decided on 40%. so the eu has not decided anything on efficiency yet, so i am asking you for a correction. if you are correcting those 15 action points, you can change the number to 40%, because then we are together as parliament and commission again and you are putting energy first, efficiency first. instead of just having nice words, we need action.
the european commission is a magnet for bad luck. a bad luck magnet that attracts bad luck and misery. if the european commission is going to intervene to save greece, we will be on the verge of the abyss with the euro in no time. if the european commission is going to intervene in the control of the external borders, then we will soon be in a situation where everyone can come and go on the continent. we have created an incontinent continent. and now, after this report, the european commission wants to deal with energy policy! president, please don't! because it's going to be the next big failure. these are matters which the countries themselves are dealing with, which the countries themselves can best decide, and that is the only way to manage energy policy in europe in a good way, in the countries themselves.
in writing. the energy union strategy offers a distinct opportunity to make our slowly withering climate policy more ambitious. the commission speaks of leadership and ambition, but time and again the industrial lobby appears to curb this ambition, resulting in a lazy climate policy. the commission is seeking greater diversification of energy sources, but we can already predict that this will result in more of the same. currently, there are massive citizens' movements against shale gas in europe, but the commission is encouraging member states through the juncker investment plan (efsi) to invest billions in oil and gas infrastructure, including shale gas. has the commission also taken account of the people of groningen who have to live with the effects of earthquakes caused by gas extraction on a daily basis? they never know when the next quake will come, how severe it will be, and whether their damaged homes will survive it. their safety is secondary to gas and money. can the commission explain to the people of groningen that their misery is necessary for the completion of the european energy union? why don't you get off fossil fuels and finally get ambitious on climate change? we need to focus on self-sufficient, renewable energy sources instead of fossil or nuclear. it's too late for any other plan!
blue-card question.– i would just like to understand this because i hear your argument a lot. you are speaking about attacks on the family and attacks on the things that you care about, but i fail to understand how giving more freedom, more choice, equal treatment to others, could possibly attack anything in your life. is it not by giving freedom to more women that you too have more freedom?
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur, mr tarabella, and thanks to commissioner jourová for her statement and her personal engagement. colleagues, what we are discussing today and voting tomorrow is a political resolution; it is not legislation. but it makes it even more important, and i think the debate we are having today underlines that. now i may not agree with every single paragraph in the resolution, but i do think it is extremely important that this parliament send a signal tomorrow, a signal to women. what kind of europe will we be shaping in the next five years? is it the kind of europe that people on that side of the house want: going back to the past, putting women back in the virtual burka? or is it a europe that guarantees women’s freedom, the freedom to choose and decide even over their own bodies and freedom from violence, with equality, equal rights, equal opportunities and equal pay? colleagues, tomorrow we will choose – and again we may not like every sentence in the resolution – but i will vote wholeheartedly for the report and for women tomorrow.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests is a very good one. it is good that the european commission is keeping its finger on the pulse, especially when you see that in economically difficult times member states still tend to give state aid and to erect barriers between member states. and, in response to what mr woolfe said, i am glad that i have a european commission to look after that. the first to suffer from the departure of a member state from the european union are precisely the small businesses, the small and mediumsized enterprises, which will no longer have access to the fair rules of the great european single market. and then, of course, you have to keep up with the times, so in the digital market, you have to ensure fair competition and tackle fragmentation. enough has been said. at the moment, it seems that member states are putting the financial interests of a few large companies ahead of net neutrality and fair access for citizens and consumers to the internet for all. another point of interest to be mentioned in this debate is the emergence of the new sharing economy. if i jump into an uber taxi in one city, i'm completely fine, if i do that in another city, i'm doing it illegally, and in most cities in europe, i don't really know what gray area i'm in. i therefore also think it is important that the european commission should take a critical and thorough look at these new developments, but draw conclusions from them for new policies. in short, abuse that you have to deal with. there is nothing wrong with a little healthy competition, but market power must always be at the service of society, and i expect this commission to look after that.
it seems to me, mr president, that this is a simple cover-up which would probably have led to a motion of censure in national politics. the european commission has covered up an important report, a report which concludes that 31 types of agricultural pesticides could and should be banned. this hormone-disrupting poison, which is sprayed on fruits and vegetables, puts people at great risk. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. people, animals and our environment are literally being poisoned. bee colonies are disappearing, bird populations are thinning, and frogs are being wiped out. the european commission does not seem to care about these objections in the face of the billions of dollars of profits that the industry is making. the industrial lobby is so influential that the european commission summit deliberately covered up this report, which means that 31 dangerous agricultural poisons are still being sprayed on our crops. i believe that a healthy environment, healthy food, is more important than short-term commercial interests and i would like to know what the commissioner thinks. i call on the commission to publish the report, to ban the substances and to use common sense while it is still possible, because you also know that these substances affect intelligence. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, i am very pleased to speak after my colleague from the front national, because then we can immediately draw the line. at the moment, europe and indeed the whole world is suffering from the conflict between russia and ukraine. we in europe have chosen to fight this conflict with sanctions. that hurts. many different economic sectors in europe are feeling the adverse effects of these sanctions. but we must, as mr cramer says, respect international conventions, and that cannot be done without pain. of course, the commissioner is right: agriculture has its own emergency fund. there are various entrepreneurs who can make use of this, and i would like to congratulate them on that. but we are dealing here with the transport sector and in particular the transport sector of our polish colleagues is suffering greatly from these sanctions. i regret that the commissioner has not gone beyond the facts, because she has not yet offered any solutions. which is why i have three questions for her: what are the contacts between her and mrs. mogherini? the eu has a lot of emergency funds, mrs mogherini in particular. can the polish transport sector not take advantage of this? we have the globalisation fund, which has a lot of money in it and is used for industrial reorientation. can the transport sector take advantage of this? and indeed, the important question from mr cramer: what is the eu doing at the wto? is there going to be an official complaint against russia?
president. - we are now closing a long dossier on weights and measures. it is good that we have now reached an agreement and that modern designed trucks now have a chance for the future: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive. that's a step in the right direction. yet i stand here with mixed feelings. we could have done much more to make the road transport sector more environmentally friendly and safer, while reducing congestion on european roads. i am referring, of course, to the ecocombi, those longer and heavier trucks that we have known for a long time from the dutch roads and on the dutch roads. we see the ecocombs there driving around to everyone's satisfaction. the environmental performance is better, there are fewer trucks on the road, there is no negative impact on the maintenance costs of the infrastructure, nor is there any negative impact on road safety. all the studies on the ecocombi show that. so you would expect europe to take up this opportunity and give the ecocombi a wide berth. such an innovative concept, who'd leave it alone? but alas, what do we see? unfounded prejudices and fear of innovation are at the forefront of this parliament and so the eco-combi does not stand a chance in europe. we therefore remain dependent on the goodwill of a member state to allow an ecocomb. fortunately, there is a back door, because we have known since 2012 that the european commission is fine with the ecocomb being used across borders, provided that both countries on the border side allow the ecocomb at the national level. i'm glad there's a back door, but we missed a chance today. the ecocombi should have come to europe. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card reply. this is really a point i'm saying: i'd like you to look at the studies. these trucks do not harm road safety, on the contrary. there is no evidence that road safety is getting worse, as all the studies show. i understand that these trucks in your country may be too heavy on certain bridges and such. well, then you shouldn't let them in there. these trucks are not allowed on all roads in the netherlands either. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not restricted to the transport of dangerous goods. but this truck we just have to give a chance in europe, it's very good!
the question of the blue card. mr taylor's speech is really a textbook example of a speech based on unfounded prejudice and fear of renovation. i am here to tell you that the eco-combi is detrimental to road safety, it is detrimental to the pressure on infrastructure. in the netherlands, one of the most densely populated countries in europe, we have had experience with this truck for more than 10 years. all the reports show: no impact on road safety and, if properly used on good routes, no impact on infrastructure. and you're here preaching hell and damnation when it comes to that ecocombi. i find it really incomprehensible that you would spread misinformation around here in this way. so my question is: will you stop spreading this false information?
president. - i should like to thank mr leichtfried's team and also my colleague mr markus ferber. they have managed to reach a reasonable compromise on a very difficult matter. but i too speak here today with a double responsibility. on the one hand i am the coordinator of the epp group and i support my shadow rapporteur in the result achieved, but on the other hand i am a dutch member of parliament and we think very differently about ecocombines than most of the members of this house. but i'll get back to that in a minute. first of all, the larger truck combinations. they are good for sustainability, for road safety, for less emissions, for less environmental impact. the safety aspect has also been mentioned by my colleagues, namely better visibility. unfortunately, we still have many accidents with lorries in europe and these proposals could save 300 lives. the question of the containers has already been raised by mrs meissner. those 45-foot containers are a good development. i think the ecocombs are a missed opportunity. we have very good experiences in the netherlands with ecocombs: positive effects on road safety and improved environmental performance. there are more and more reports from the german government - i say this to mr ertug - which say that they are good for the environment. in the meantime, i fully understand that we can continue with the ecocombines on a subsidiary, bilateral basis. so if we could soon reach a compromise within the benelux or with north rhine-westphalia, we would be further along. and i agree with everyone: no eco-combi's in small german or austrian villages. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card reply. this is a very astute question because we, as the european parliament, are all working towards better intermodality. we want transport to move away from air and road, towards rail and inland waterways. but at some point you see that it's easier to move, say, vegetables, fresh fruit, food, door to door quickly in large quantities, while, say, sand, steel, concrete, can keep going through the ship. intermodality is therefore also co-modality, i.e. the different modes side by side, and the ecocombi fits into that.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in ukraine. i am very concerned about the role of the eu in this. president juncker is calling for a european army with a warlike spirit. he sounds like that other chairman, chairman mao, who with his red army annexed the vulnerable tibet. under juncker, it is becoming increasingly clear that the eu has an aggressive enlargement agenda. but the commission is making a serious error of assessment: russia is not tibet. president putin is not the dalai lama. juncker supports poroshenko, a war criminal who has bombed civilians in lugansk, and on the same day that russian opposition leader nemtsov was assassinated, poroshenko's main opponent, mr chechetov, was found dead. the european council should call for a war tribunal for the crimes against humanity in ukraine, for which poroshenko is also responsible.
the situation in the european union is a disaster. there is no or little economic growth. the debts have never been so high and they are growing by the day. unemployment is immense, and there is no improvement in sight. the european central bank has made interest rates extremely low and has started the money press, and as a result the countries that do not want to reform will never do so again. there's no way out of this situation unless we change the rules of the game. the euro must be dismantled. the member states must decide their own economic policies. but this parliament now wants to make an unaffordable welfare state compulsory in all member states. at whose expense? what we do need is small governments, small debts, low taxes. that alone is the recipe for restoring economic growth. we will not need the economic semester that is on the agenda now.
mr president, the european economy seems to be getting better. the growth is accelerating. to me, that's a signal that the course is the right one. a budget in order, structural reforms and investment, but in that order and especially not 'either/or', because i hear that too often here 'either/or'. no, that is what europe needs. of course, we also need to invest in order to strengthen our economy, but we must do so in such a way that we do not allow the deficits and the public debt to increase again at a rapid pace. that is a mistake we have made too often in the past, we have underused the good years to build up buffers that we could use in the lean years that followed. we owe it to ourselves not to repeat that mistake and, more importantly, we owe it to our children not to saddle them with unsustainable debt. finally, this debate is also about the confidence of the european citizens. that trust is under pressure as they see france getting an exception to the rule again and again. let us treat all countries equally, whether they are large or small.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that the eu budget for 2016 should focus on improving the economy. this is a very good thing, even though the biggest obstacle is the euro and it is the member states that have to take the most measures to achieve a lasting economic recovery. the budgetary guidelines, however, have such problematic elements that they do not receive my support. the guidelines too easily treat expenditure as investment, and call for an increase in expenditure and especially payments. a wrong answer to the payment delay. they also envisage special instruments outside the multiannual financial framework and more european own resources. the opposite is necessary: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, europe must no longer be given its own resources. the contributions of the member states reflect the fact that the union is at the service of the member states. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the guidelines are also in line with the critical assessment of the agencies on need, quality and scope for savings. i call on the european parliament to show real responsibility on these issues. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, boris nemtsov was our man. his party belongs to the alde family, but he is a man we do not claim for ourselves: he belongs to all of us. he – like many others – wanted to make russia a better place. mikhail kasyanov was here – also a dear friend – and he was quite clear: we in this parliament should not look into the mirror and say that we have made mistakes or that the enlargement of nato was a mistake because it provoked putin. no, that is nonsense. nato has brought shelter to the countries in eastern europe which are now members of the organisation. also, putin knows that ‘it stops’ over there. so the enlargement of nato did not incite putin’s policy, which is a long—term policy of crippling the neighbouring countries and of restoring the influence, at least, of the former soviet union. it is also about restoring an absence of the rule of law because, even if you do not like a politician, you should respect him or her and that politician should be safe. if you declare that they are enemies of the state, and if a person like ramzan kadyrov says that enemies of the state will face a bleak future, that means that you hate democracy and you make it impossible for russia – a great nation, whose people we love and respect – to have a relaxed and normal relationship with other people. the international dimension and the internal dimension come together here. it is up to putin to make sure that those who killed nemtsov are brought to real justice and that everything is done to clear up this situation. what we should do is to talk with russians and with human rights organisations because, on the one hand, we have sanctions – and they should stay – but, on the other hand, we are reaching out to the ordinary people in russia.
mr president, the panzeri report makes a very clear reference to the persecution of christians worldwide, in accordance with the facts and therefore quite rightly so. that brings me to the question to the council and commission and the high representative about the appropriateness of appointing an eu special envoy for religious freedom. i look forward to your response. it is a debate which has already been held by some member states, as you know. in paragraph 132, the report also addresses the eu guidelines on the promotion of the protection of freedom of religion or belief of 24 june 2013. we're two years ahead of schedule. i am very much looking forward to seeing the practical implementation of these guidelines. mr demesmaeker has already spoken of political will: is that it? your assessment of the situation in parliament is very welcome. will you come with me? that is my question, and if so, what is the timeframe? because i'm very curious about that.
i would like to take up where mrs vergiat left off. here 's the question: what are you doing in these negotiations in the khartoum process, the cooperation between european countries and african countries, including a number of dictatorships? that question remains complicated. the question is also: what do you expect from your meeting with the foreign ministers and the meeting of the ministers of the interior and justice next week? your intentions are good. we must ensure that the crisis in libya leads to more migration, more refugees. but frankly, in 2011, we didn't see any member states willing to step over their shadow and make sure that we resettle more people, for example. i see no sign of unity between the member states in northern and southern europe now, because the system is still the same: italy, catch them, and we won't have to worry about them!
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, to counter the horrific terrorist acts by isis and others, it is key that countries that see high numbers of victims of terrorism, as well as large numbers of perpetrators, are actively engaged in fighting back. as the king of jordan said yesterday, the fight that is witnessed between terrorists and those who want to defend pluralism is a fight within islam. it is important that countries of the arab region take responsibility. cooperation between the eu and arab league states on counter-terrorism is welcome, yet clarification is needed. we call on the publication of the memorandum of understanding so that there is full transparency and we can see what is agreed. it is unfortunate that the press release by the external action service did not mention the importance of respecting human rights while cooperating on fighting terrorism; because in this house we have repeatedly been asked and forced to call for the respect for human rights, notably after the arab uprisings, as they are often violated, precisely in the member states of the arab league, severely and systematically. this kind of repression is too often legitimised by arguments of national security or by invoking counter-terrorism and the eu cannot and should not, directly or indirectly, be a part of legitimising repression in the name of counter-terrorism – not the repression of those that act entirely in line with their universal human rights. sadly, from bahrain to egypt, from saudi arabia to turkey, from qatar to sudan, we see this kind of repression. i think that we should take the lead in ensuring that security and freedom are integrally related and the eu must not be tempted by any short-term perspectives on interests while forgetting about the fundamental values upon which we base ourselves.
president. - i have serious doubts about a treaty with the arab league. one reason is that arab countries have the same barbaric practices, such as cutting off hands and lashing people, as daesh. the second reason is that a lot of the funding for extremists comes from arab countries. and thirdly, countries like saudi arabia, but also think of egypt, because of the arbitrariness with which they treat their citizens and the regime of oppression that they have, they are encouraging extremism. for these three reasons, i wonder how we can conduct an effective anti-terrorism policy with the arab league. as long as the text of this treaty is not known, i am not reassured.
mr president, islam teaches that the koran is the literal word of god. the koran now commands us to fear islam. in koran 8, verse 60, muslims are called upon to do everything possible to instill fear in people who are not muslims. but what do we hear now from the organization of islamic cooperation and the like? that organization is running a campaign to make us feel guilty about our justified fear of killers like the ones at charlie hebdo. if we do what the koran says, if we fear islam, then it's not good either. the islamophobic campaign is part of a psychological warfare against everything and everyone who is not yet a muslim. members of the european parliament, members of the european commission, do not be fooled. the koran commands us to fear islam. islamophobia is simply a command from the koran.
we must be honest, mr president, about the evil of anti-semitism in europe and must fight it vigorously together. i think that the appointment of a special eu envoy is a matter of urgency. i would ask the council and the commission - and i am speaking personally to commissioner hahn - to give this proposal serious consideration. it is obvious that jewish communities must be continuously and actively involved in the fight against anti-semitism throughout europe. i also take it for granted that fellow citizens of jewish origin can live in all eu member states without fear. that is our personal and collective task today, regardless of the timing of this debate. it is not at all the case that jewish communities should have to bear their own security at their own expense. their welfare is too precious, literally and figuratively speaking, to be sacrificed for that.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, on behalf of my colleague commissioner vella, who unfortunately cannot be here with you today, i would like to thank mr cadec as chair of the committee of fisheries for his initiative to have a resolution on sea bass, and all members who will support it. the sea bass stock in the southern north sea, the english channel, the celtic sea and the irish sea has been declining rapidly since 2012 and will, according to scientific advice, approach its historically lowest level in 2016. the concrete proposals in your motion for a resolution to establish a coordinated approach to the management of sea bass are therefore very important. for the past three years the commission has worked very hard to broker an agreement between member states on improved management of this stock. in 2012 the commission proposed the introduction of total allowable catch (tac) and has had ongoing discussions with member states. unfortunately member states were unable to agree, mainly because they could not agree on how to share the tac between them. last november the commission proposed alternative management measures, notably limiting the number of days at sea, freezing the number of licences for commercial fishermen and limiting the daily catches for recreational fishermen, all to contain fishing pressure on the stock. again the council was not able to come to an agreement on the commission’s proposal. considering the state of the resources and the urgency of the situation, the commission has subsequently decided to take temporary emergency measures for pelagic vessels targeting spawning aggregations of sea bass as part of a response to the state of the stock. these emergency measures are the first element in a package of envisaged measures which the commission plans to be adopted for the management of sea bass in 2015. the second element in this package is a commission proposal to limit the catches of recreational anglers to three fish per angler per day. recreational fishermen produce a quarter of all landings of sea bass and it is therefore important and justified that they contribute to decreasing the pressure on this stock. this proposal is now with the council, which is looking very favourably at the proposal. the adoption of these rules by the council is scheduled for 16 march. the commission is currently discussing the third element of the package with the member states concerned. this would cover several parts of the commercial sector which also impact on sea bass. it may take the form of catch limits. once this initial package is in place, and in order to rebuild the stock, we are envisaging including sea bass in the multiannual plan for the western atlantic quotas, as foreseen under the new common fisheries policy (cfp). we fully agree with you that in the preparation of such plans we need to consult all stakeholders, build on their knowledge and ensure a fair approach. we will also need to integrate the latest scientific advice on sea bass in the preparation of that plan.
i am also very concerned about the position of the sea bass and rightly so, the european commission has recently intervened and taken a number of measures to protect the sea bass. i am a little less happy with the resolution now on the table and especially with the way it has been put forward. i would have preferred that we had a good debate in the committee on fisheries and had weighed up all the pros and cons. the shortcut we're taking now is actually a little short of the curve. this is also reflected in the content of the resolution, because when i read in it that there should be a quota for sea bass, i think that this is not a good management mechanism for sea bass. for many small-scale fishermen, sea bass is a real hit of chance and if we come up with a quota, it will bring a lot of political struggle and bureaucratic hassle, whereas we want to reduce the bureaucratic pressure for fisheries. the most important thing is that we take sustainable measures to protect the sea bass during spawning and the spawning areas.
mr president, almost 90% of all fish species are severely overfished, and that includes sea bass. the situation is very bad for this species and that is why brussels has also taken emergency measures, but these measures could not have had enough effect. besides, they're due on april 30th. it is important to extend those emergency measures, at least until a multiannual management plan with additional conservation measures for the sea bass is in place. this species can live up to 30 years. it's a slow-growing species, it reproduces less quickly than a lot of other species, and so it also needs more time. i therefore call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the resolution to protect the sea bass, to vote in favour of the amendment calling for additional measures and for the extension of the emergency measures. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
president. - the united nations human rights council is at the heart of the global response to human rights violations. i am therefore very proud that my own country, the netherlands, has been elected to the council for the next three years. but we must not underestimate the task we have to do both in the human rights council and in the eu. the human rights situation worldwide has unfortunately reached a low point. every day, there are serious violations of human rights around the world. opposition leaders are being jailed without due process, human rights defenders and journalists must fear for their lives just for daring to be critical. discrimination and violence against lgbt people are commonplace, and tens of thousands of refugees still drown in the mediterranean every year. it's up to us to turn the tide. we can only do this by consistently addressing human rights issues in our external action, while remaining critical of ourselves. i would like to draw commissioner hahn's attention to the situation in azerbaijan, where many prominent human rights defenders and members of the opposition have been imprisoned in the past year. the case of leyla yunus, nominated by this parliament for the sakharov prize, is a symbol of the repressive nature of the government in baku. the first step has been taken with the priorities we have formulated for the 28th un human rights council. i therefore call on the commission, parliament and the member states to pursue this course together.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the european union is being put to the test, because how do we support the jordanian monarch's vision in practical terms? i make two proposals, two urgent appeals to the european union and, above all, to its member states. first of all: full support to the christian units in syria and iraq who are trying to protect their families, villages and property from the barbarism of is. they're our boots-on-the-ground. let us therefore work closely with assyrian and chaldean networks in europe. secondly: the commission has also proposed that the council should support the creation of an autonomous province for religious minorities in the nineveh plain. this would give hope and prospects to the displaced and persecuted christians scattered in tent camps throughout the region. let us give all our support to king abdullah's message.
the conflict in south sudan needs no introduction. we've been over this before. the president and the former vice president are at each other's throats, and the american people are suffering. the preliminary low point is the abduction of at least 89 children, but possibly many more, from a village in south sudan. children, boys from the age of 12 who are already considered fit to fight as soldiers in the armies of either of the two warring parties. it reminded me of dave eggers' book what is the what? which is a 2006 book that describes the journey of a young man who also fled from a village in south sudan because of the government army, a journey through sudan to ethiopia, to refugee camps. we're actually seeing "what is the what" here in reality. our question is: bring the children back.
in writing. ‒ the fvd is currently opposed to the opening of an eu embassy in tehran. first, it must be made clear that iran is verifiably abandoning its pursuit of nuclear weapons.
when i mentioned a few years ago that i was interested in taxation, i was treated with a little bit of sympathy, because it was a dull and dusty subject and it was not politically exciting at all. that has changed a great deal in recent days, but i cannot say that the reason for that is so positive. because unfortunately it's all caused by luxleaks and we're now in a situation where ordinary citizens are all concerned about the fact that they feel they have to pay a lot more tax - the same goes for small business owners - than the big multinationals do. it seems they are slipping through the cracks of the net. i think it is very good that we are now using the momentum to take steps forward, and that requires at least that we know exactly what we are talking about. we must have the right definitions, because in the debate tax avoidance is being confused with tax fraud and tax avoidance. everything is intermingled. the definition of tax havens, what exactly do we mean by that? we must agree on this, so that we can speak about the same thing. we very much welcome the commission's present proposal for greater transparency. because to know what you're talking about, that transparency is very necessary. i have one more question to put to the commission. we all know that this problem is a global problem and not just confined to europe, so to what extent are you also talking to other major powers about transparency in tax deals?
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, like all the previous speakers the alde group will also support this package because ukraine is in need of this support. of course we must be sure that ukraine reforms – all the other speakers have also said this. therefore, it would be good, and it is important, that inspectors from both the imf and the eu are ‘sur place’, that they will be present to advise and to guide. ukraine is a country of which a part is annexed and a part is occupied by rebels supported by russia, and therefore it is an immense task for it to survive. but, in order to survive, it should reform.
there is absolutely no money to ukraine. you and i know all too well that this government needs two billion euros to continue the war against eastern ukraine. the government in ukraine is not good in any way. it has no respect for the right of self-determination of peoples, including the people of eastern ukraine and crimea. it is bombing civilians in eastern ukraine, killing hundreds, a war crime for which it must be prosecuted. it is complicating the investigation into the downing of flight mh17, which killed 298 people. it does not give any explanation for the six political opponents of the regime who have been killed in the past two months. i ask the european commission: do not become complicit in the war crimes of this regime. don't go to war with russia and don't throw hard-earned tax dollars into the pockets of this corrupt gang.
on 1 january this year germany introduced a statutory minimum wage, applicable to every worker working in germany. the country from which i come, the netherlands, has a large transport sector and over 45% of dutch freight traffic goes to or through germany. for the netherlands, the problem is not so much the minimum wage. the problems, however, are the enormous administrative burden, the additional costs involved and the fact that competitors from lower-wage countries will compensate for the hours worked in germany elsewhere. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). my party wants that freedom for the netherlands too, if there is a need for it. however, we would urge our eastern neighbours to address the negative effects of this legislation so that the dutch transport sector is not disproportionately harmed and the dutch driver does not have to pay the bill.
i must say that i welcome the introduction of the german minimum wage. i think it is important for a social europe that all the member states of the european union have a minimum wage. these minimum wages will vary, but in the long run - and i know that for many it is taking too long - they will grow together. but if we all have a minimum wage, at least we know what we're talking about. the second point. like mr marinescu, i have problems with the maintenance of the german minimum wage for transit traffic. i think that you are making the case unnecessarily complex and that this involves an extraordinary amount of administrative rules. i am also curious to see what the european commission's procedure will teach us in this area. let me now turn to the internal cabotage in germany. i assume that the german minimum wage is paid for transport in germany by non-german companies. that's another step towards a fairer playing field. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. then there are the other problems in the sector. we also have parking places in the netherlands where on weekends 50, 60, 70, mainly eastern european drivers cook their pot, go to the bathroom. that is a pressing social problem. i hope, mrs bulc, that you will take this into account in the road transport package, because workers in europe have a right to a fair wage and to fair social benefits. the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. the answer is clear. a small and medium-sized enterprise must also pay minimum social conditions. if that is not possible, the company is unlikely to be viable. it is not possible for a small and mediumsized enterprise to survive on three and a half euros an hour. we are now at the heart of the social europe. and think of our constituents. the support for europe is declining at the moment and the social chapter - as mr juncker said in his introductory speech - will need more attention.
the roma community is the largest ethnic minority in europe, with 10 million people. their daily lives are systematically made difficult by discrimination, xenophobia and stigmatisation. it is clear that this is not just a problem of eastern european countries, but of the european union as a whole. a sad but telling example occurred three months ago when the mayor of a suburb of paris refused to allow a dead roma baby to be buried in his commune. in recent years, a number of political measures and initiatives have been taken, including at european level. focused on housing, education and care, these measures aimed to improve the lives of roma in europe. unfortunately, that did not happen. the situation of roma today is still deplorably bad in all eu member states. this will continue as long as discrimination and exclusion are not addressed. there is no need for new working groups, strategies or large conferences. it is high time that we actually got to work. the mentality and prejudices towards roma must be addressed. in addition, member states should be consulted on their policies towards minorities and respect for fundamental rights. the segregation of roma is unacceptable. the european community of values is based on fundamental rights, human dignity, equality and the rights of minorities. it is high time that these words were made real to the 10 million roma in europe.
mr president, as i have requested many times in recent years for this issue to be put on the agenda, my group obviously supports the request. however, i would suggest that we slightly modify the title because there is not as yet an agreement between mexico and the eu – there is not even a proposal for an agreement. we support the request to include it on the agenda, but i would suggest that we modify the title.
in september 2014, 100 turkish intellectuals made two demands to their government: the european union is also committed to the replacement of school history books and then to an official apology to the armenians for the genocide of a century ago. these requirements are inseparable, they are inseparable. and that brings us to the heart of the armenian genocide controversy today, a political controversy. the turkish authorities have not yet been able to establish a legal basis for the application of the new rules. let's be honest here. you are from germany, mr president. read the german press from the last few weeks. however, the description of the armenian genocide in turkish history books is worse. victims become perpetrators and vice versa! how much do you care, commissioner, about this systematic and offensive falsification of turkish history in the current negotiations with ankara? or do you ignore the self-image and worldview of future generations of turks? that would be a denial of our european principles!
at the beginning of the last century, the turkish rulers of the time took measures which were considered by their subjects to be anti-islamic. you know it: the caliphate was abolished, the arabic alphabet was replaced by latin, islamic law was replaced by european law. but on one point, islamic law has been applied: the armenian christians have been bitterly persecuted. any application of islamic law to christians will result in events we call genocide, because under islamic sharia law the non-muslim has no rights! today, it is our duty to commemorate the armenian genocide, but we have another duty: i am not going to go into detail about the reasons for this. i therefore ask the commission: the european union must not allow sharia to be used in europe to commemorate the fate of the armenians.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his presence here and the fact that he has taken action. i also welcome the massive presence of the council, who are clearly very interested in the matter. i have a lot of questions, commissioner, and i have a lot of confidence in your contacts with the mexicans. however, you know that legislation has been in place in mexico since november 2012. some of the colleagues here said that we have failed to raise the issue. well, i would like to give you a little selection here of the actions that i have taken. on 31 may 2013, i tabled written questions to the commission on russia’s demand for passenger name record (pnr) data, asking the commission also which other third countries intended to collect pnr data. we got a reply that by then qatar, mexico, brazil, argentina, oman, united arab emirates, saudi arabia, japan and south korea also showed an interest in pnr systems. somewhat later we learned of the deadline set by mexico, which was for 1 january 2014. so, on 5 december 2013 – a month before the deadline – i put parliamentary questions to the commission regarding the deadline and did not get any satisfactory reply. however, the deadline was postponed until 30 september 2014. on 9 april 2014, i wrote a letter both to the commission and the council on the urgency of third countries asking for pnr, including mexico and the other countries. on 18 september 2014, i wrote a letter to the commission specifically on mexico pnr because confusion had arisen concerning the date of the mexico pnr deadline. i got a reply from the commission in mid-october stating that the new deadline was set for 1 january 2015, etc., etc. the rest is history. on 9 march 2015, i raised it in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. so yes, colleagues, we have raised the matter and i completely fail to understand why the commission and the current commissioner’s predecessors have been sitting on their hands ever since. two further questions: it is clear that even if the postponement of the deadline to 1 july 2015 is very welcome, we are not going to have an agreement by then. what will the commission do in order to ensure the legal protection of citizens on the one hand and avoiding heavy fines for carriers on the other? incidentally, i know that not only have i been asking questions but the countries concerned and the carriers have almost been imploring the european commission to act, and the commission has not. we have also asked questions about mexico passing on pnr data to the united states. we have not got an answer to that. finally, i would like to know from the commission: how are you going to fill the gap? how are you going to ensure protection for citizens and carriers? what action is the commission going to take regarding the other countries that i mentioned, such as russia, qatar, the united arab emirates and other friendly nations? then i would like to get a full report on the situation regarding those other countries.
blue-card question. – ms jiménez-becerril barrio, i was a bit surprised to hear your warm endorsement of transferring data to the mexican authorities because, quite frankly – i only read the newspapers about mexico, i have not been there – but the mexican police do not give me a lot of reasons to have trust in their ability to protect our fundamental rights. i would really like to know whether you feel that the mexican authorities are able to uphold our standards, whether you have that level of trust in the mexican authorities, and in the mexican police in particular.
in writing. - 21 billion! 21 billion is left to this commission. the european taxpayer has paid too much for 21 billion. and now that money has to be carried over to 2015 and beyond. no, no, and no again! in the netherlands, the elderly spend 24 hours in their own shit because there is no money for elderly care. in the netherlands, 400 care homes are being closed because the eu is demanding cuts. in the netherlands, pensions are being cut by billions and the money is flowing to brussels. and here is a sum of 21 billion not spent! there's only one destination for this money: the member states that pay more than they receive! the netherlands is the biggest taxpayer in the eu! this money must be returned to the dutch taxpayer. i hope that this commission will finally come to its senses and implement this proposal immediately.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, but has also rejected the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the pvv believes that the international holocaust remembrance day, which is observed on 27 january each year in accordance with un resolution 60/7, pays sufficient attention to all the victims of the second world war. all victims are remembered equally, including jews, homosexuals, disabled people, but also roma and other groups who were murdered in a horrific way by the socialist nazi regime.
the commission is also proposing that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. 1,138 people were killed, more than 2,000 people were injured. not all the bodies were recovered. the international community was shocked and vowed that this should never happen again. yet far from all victims and their survivors have received full compensation. there are companies that do take full advantage of these factories and the people who work in them, but that have not been willing to compensate them, or that have not told how much they have given. cleanclothes.org lists their names exactly. but what is needed is for commissioner malmström to publicly call these companies to account. naming and shaming. these companies can't get away with this. they've had plenty of time. the commissioner malmström also has to be very concerned about the monitoring of the so-called sustainability pact. the garment industry is vital to bangladesh and the country is the world's second largest clothing producer after china, with 60 percent going to europe. we must take responsibility for that. the last thing i want to do is to call for the strengthening of the trade unions. it is necessary to allow the workers of bangladesh to unite and to make a fist. it has been found that the employees put them under pressure differently, playing to each other (??). as a result, employers could force their staff to continue working in a building that was clearly life-threatening. every power needs a counter-power and for this type of worker a strong union is vital. we must support them in this.
we're two years later, but the contaminated bengali clothing is still far from clean. it 's been mentioned before: eleven hundred people died in the rana plaza disaster, purely due to profit and negligence. and to ease the suffering, an emergency fund was set up to help victims and survivors. the italian benetton is one of those clothing companies which still fail to pay the full amount of the aid promised. despite all the social pressure in recent times, 10 per cent of the pledged amounts have still not been paid. i have asked you about this, commissioner malmström, but you are not prepared to call out the negligent clothing companies. i think that it is not enough to express admiration for the companies which do contribute. given the major role played by the european clothing industry in this disaster, it is the eu that should exert all its influence to ensure that the victims still receive the support to which they are entitled. the pressure on the government of bangladesh must also be increased, for example by means of binding rules. international and european trade unions point to a severe anti-trade union climate and a high degree of impunity in the bengali textile industry. i therefore call on all the groups to recognize the importance of trade unions in the resolution. that helps!
the baltic sea is a unique area. at the same time, we see here the sad example of the european fisheries policy. everything that's wrong with that is in the baltic sea. the trend has been the same for years: less fish every year! the biodiversity is still declining. almost all fish stocks are overfished. the cod, for example, is even seriously threatened with extinction. time and again, member states set catch limits that are far above the scientific advice. we hope that this proposal will put an end to this at least. as if overfishing were not enough, we also see that other environmental effects threaten the biodiversity of the baltic sea, such as animal manure, which allows a huge number of algae to grow. that is why i believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr nils torvalds, for his excellent work, especially in view of the deadlock he found here in this house and the deadlock with the council which he inherited from his colleague, mrs corinne lepage, who had given the first reading. let 's face it . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's climate objectives are met. if we can get to a stalemate over that 20 percent, and if you consider that in 30 years we have to go to 80 to 95 percent co2 reduction, that promises very little for the future. the steps we are taking now are really very small steps and yet there is already fighting for every millimeter. that's promising when we're about to take the real big steps. with the current attitude of the member states in particular, i am convinced that we will not get very far with our climate policy. we in europe are beating ourselves up that we are going to meet the 2020 targets. if i look at my own country, the netherlands, i see that now, fortunately, economic growth is picking up a little, and carbon emissions are suddenly rising again instead of falling. i think we should therefore look very carefully at our policy. now , the subject we 're discussing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of petrol and diesel fuels is maintained. making good policy takes courage, especially in today's changing world and especially when it turns out that existing policy is being overtaken by science, because that means we have to change our policy. we need to realise that biofuels are not the holy grail that we thought they were a few years ago. that may be the advanced biofuels, but we must link them to sustainability criteria and not make the same mistake as in recent years. because that's what we're threatening to do. again, i will vote for this result, but it is a very slim result.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, nils torvalds, for his work on this file which indeed, as has been stated before, was not an easy file at all. certainly it was not easy to build up a majority in this house and then undertake negotiations with the council, and i think we have to thank the rapporteur for all his work in that. having said that, i am disappointed with the result but i am more disappointed that the council is not even present at this discussion. it somewhat shows the problem we are having here, that within the council the member states do not really see the problem at hand. that is, i think, a very bad signal they are giving here: that again they are just not showing interest. that was also very clear during the negotiations and i think that is a problem. why are we discussing this? we set a target of 10% for biofuels in the transport sector, but we all know that, if you look at how it has been developing, it mainly concerns the development of agri-fuels, of first-generation biofuels, which are not delivering the climate benefits that they are supposed to do. that is why we had to do something about it. the commission came forward with a proposal trying to cap the first generation at 5%. in parliament we managed at least to get a deal for a cap at around 6%, but the member states wanted this to be at 7%. unfortunately, in the negotiations, we lost this. in the end, we as a parliament, agreed also with the 7% cap which is, from my perspective, way too high, because this is just filling up the target with the bad biofuels which are not the ones that we want to stimulate; we want to stimulate the more advanced ones. that was the second demand of parliament, that we want advanced biofuels in order to really have innovation in europe. unfortunately, here also the council did not want anything. in the end, we have a non-binding target for advanced fuels, so that means that there is a very weak signal for stimulating innovation within the european union. and if you look at the definitions, this term is also poorly defined and now we will probably have a debate where everyone will call his own product ‘advanced biofuel’. suddenly everyone will be part of that new hype but not really delivering innovation. the third problem relates to indirect land use change. we wanted clear accounting of indirect land use change and we lost that too; we only have reporting, not accounting. in that sense, from my perspective, we lost too much. we just lost too much as a parliament, and therefore i cannot support this deal. but the commissioner is here and i would like to ask what are we going to do after 2020? are we going to learn from this problem and not set a very inflexible new target but to put the fuel quality directive at centre stage: setting a target on reduction, and not specifically targeting a technology when we do not know exactly how it will develop? therefore the question: will we continue after 2020 with the fuel quality directive? if we continue with the directive, we will have a new debate and then i hope that the council will be present because this is a very important topic. if we do it right we can really have decarbonisation in the transport sector, but if we do it wrong we are stimulating bad technologies and that is what we would like to prevent. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– first of all, biofuels are not the only alternative in town. that is one of the biggest problems; we are now stimulating just one technology in the transport sector that can decarbonise the transport sector, whereas there are many other options. so i think that what we have done in our policies is focus too much on one technology, which is a very stupid thing to do from a political perspective. so you have to set your central objective, your decarbonisation, and then have different options for how to play this game. in that sense, what we have been doing now is really focusing on one bad technology that does not deliver; does that mean that we are fixating ourselves on fossil fuels? no, the problem is that now some of these alternatives are even worse for the climate than the fossil fuels, and then we are really stimulating the wrong one. that we really need to fix, and unfortunately we are not fixing that enough in this case. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – first of all, mr fjellner, i am voting in favour of the envi mandate. i know you were against. you did not want anything on indirect land use change. you want a higher cap for the first generation. you have been taken in by the agriculture lobby for a long while. we know that. if you really wanted to have some change then you would have joined the envi deal. you were not part of that deal. in the negotiations you were ready to give up everything and we know that. now you are pretending that you are suddenly on the good side. maybe you should have joined us a bit earlier on instead of not even participating. secondly, if you want to distinguish between the good and the bad you need to take indirect land use change into consideration, because that is the key point. if we do not take indirect land use change into consideration, you do not know which is good and which is bad. that is why i am advocating taking indirect land use change into account. you did not even want that. so you are the problem, in that you just want one target, stimulating agriculture instead of only stimulating the good biofuels. as to your third question, if i were a producer of second-generation biofuels at this moment and considering this deal i would not put my money in europe because this non-binding ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already shown that biofuels are a controversial subject and the long negotiations indicate that there were many obstacles to overcome. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for that. in the long term, we must always strive to use our resources more efficiently. it's sustainable and economical. our farmers and gardeners are crucial to this. they produce more and more food with less and less environmental impact. innovation has contributed to an increasingly effective and efficient use of raw materials. biofuels are an opportunity for farmers to make the most of a natural cycle. they can contribute to a more circular economy. for this we need the right and clear objectives and there must be room for innovation and experimentation. european agriculture is capable of great achievements because of constantly new insights. the agricultural sector is a major contributor to our common challenge.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, even in the most remote places of this planet, hardly any seabird is being found without plastic in its stomach. this is plastic that is not being digested, plastic that is often toxic. we all know that plastic bags are one of the major causes of this huge plastic pollution, and many of these birds, fish, turtles and other marine animals have fragments of the 100 billion european plastic bags that we use annually in their stomachs. but despite these devastating figures there is good news. actually, there are two parts this. first of all, this huge environmental problem is relatively easy to solve and, secondly, there is huge public support for the measures to solve this problem. therefore, the result that we are discussing today is, i think, an example of very good european policy-making. we have seen a strongly united european parliament, thanks to a very good rapporteur, ms auken – whom i thank – but also because we had a presidency, italy, that was not just focusing on avoiding problems between member states but that actually wanted to solve a problem, which is, unfortunately, something rather unique from the council side. contrary to what some people within the commission might think – and i do not mean you, commissioner vella – this legislation will be seen in the future as one of the european union’s best achievements of the last couple of years.
the commission has wisely decided to appoint a special commissioner for better regulation. it is a vice-president, mr timmermans. better regulation is needed, because the dutch taxpayer was perplexed when he heard that the eu is concerned with the amount of cinnamon in cinnamon buns, the length of ladders and yes the curvature of bananas. we were therefore very pleased to hear from mr timmermans that he wanted to abolish the plastic bag regulations. and rightly so, because that is another one of those typical pointless and hopeless measures. it is now clear that mr timmermans' first best action has already been reversed. he thus degrades himself to the 'interpreter-translator' of mr juncker, but then he is the best-paid interpreter-translator there is. mr president, this shows all the more that this commission is on the wrong track. many promises, but little implementation. normally , i 'd call to ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, firstly i would like to extend my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr faria, for his excellent work on this file. mr faria, you had to take over the work of mr skylakakis and i think you did so very well, so thank you for that. my group can also support the deal which is on the table now. of course, at the moment we are only discussing the monitoring of international shipping, and we all know that international shipping is one of the few sectors which is not regulated for co2 at all. in that sense, a first step of monitoring and reporting on the co2 impact is of course a good start, but it is only a start. i am also very happy that, in the deal we have, there is an obligation for the commission to have biannual reporting on the full climate impact: shipping is more than just co2, and it is good that the commission will also report on that biannually. the most important question is what will the next step be, and that is a question for the commissioner, mr arias cañete. we all know that the imo is supposedly working on something, but we all know that this work is going very, very slowly, so my question to the commissioner would be: what are you going to do to make sure that the imo delivers on international shipping, ensures that they really do start reducing their emissions; and if they do not, then what is the commission planning to do about reducing the co2 emissions of shipping? we need to act, and just waiting for the imo to decide to do something might be too little, so i am curious and anxious for your answer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for your question. i think i could not agree more that we should be doing something. maybe this also refers to mrs girling, who talked about the failure of international aviation. i see that completely differently because, by action at the european level, this also made the international world move on aviation. so sometimes you see a positive impact when europe moves, and in that sense indeed i fully agree with you that on shipping it is also time to act.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of the free bag reduces the amount of plastic waste that ends up in the environment. it is good that the european parliament has today supported measures to reduce the use of so-called 'lightweight plastic bags'. this is the case with the free bags that are often provided at the checkout counter for single use. the party for the animals has been advocating for the abolition of disposable carrier bags for some time. each year, some 100 billion plastic bags are used in europe, of which some 8 billion end up in the environment and our seas. the plastic carrier bag has an average life of only 15 minutes. bag waste is a typical example of waste that can be prevented. a price incentive is used to encourage people to use reusable bags. the proposal aims to reduce the use of plastic bags by 50 to 80% in the coming years. the remaining bags should also be made of more environmentally friendly and biodegradable materials.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. however, in this report there are several environmental concerns that are not included in the text, like the biodiversity problems and the multifunctional nature of the forest. furthermore, the report advocates using forestry and forestry resources for biomass production by the energy industries, which then should be an important part for a future eu energy mix. for these reasons, the party for the animals cannot vote in favour here, therefore i have abstained on the final vote.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, firstly i note that, as usual, the council is absent. but then they do not have to be here because they probably already read about the document, that was adopted 30 minutes ago, last weekend in the german newspaper die welt where the commission was extensively quoted. my group thinks that there are very positive elements in the paper – such as the focus on better information sharing and the importance of fundamental rights and data protection – but unfortunately the paper is short on concrete proposals. one glaring omission in this paper is the evaluation of existing measures. commissioner timmermans referred to it, but where is the evaluation? maybe this will also be in die welt next weekend – i can't wait. so rather than proposing a whole raft of new measures, we should start with evaluating the existing toolkit, because you are the champion of better lawmaking, and i think evaluation is a part of better lawmaking. proposals to expand the role of europol are certainly interesting, but setting up this whole new structure must be done in a proper parliamentary process in the context of the current revision of the europol statute, and not sneakily via the back door of a mere commission communication. the revision of the transparency regulation is long overdue, but the commission and the absent member states stubbornly defend the old culture of secrecy, deliberately keeping citizens at a distance and refusing accountability. so i hope you are going to include this in your paper as well. my group is also worried about the increasingly blurred lines between policing and intelligence and security tasks, and the inflationary use of the term ‘national security’, without any proper legal definition. the proposals in the package also create a strange hybrid of national and european powers that leave citizens in the dark as to the applicable law. the proposals further weaken checks and balances, the very core of the democratic rule of law. alde firmly supports the achievement of a fully-fledged european area of freedom, security and justice, but always based on the principle of no new powers without more safeguards.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: let me remind you that in the recent terrorist attacks, the terrorists were known and followed by the police up to a certain point and then not anymore. instead of re-evaluating old-fashioned police investigative work, the european commission seems to want to store more data on flights. that doesn't seem like a productive way to go. in fact, i think that is dangerous because it distracts attention from following individuals who are suspected. to return to pnr (passenger name record) when the european parliament has been asking for years for evidence to show that it is helping is not the way to go. then judicial cooperation. yes, of course there will have to be more cooperation between member states in tracking down terrorists and criminals. but this also involves a solution to the problem of "trust", because so far european member states do not trust each other. we've also seen what happens to suspects who get caught between a rock and a hard place. my question to the commission is therefore: do you have any plans to improve that? cyber security, you know. how does the european commission view the right of individuals to protect themselves against government surveillance? after the snowden revelations and the nsa case, it's clear that you need to protect yourself more. but that means that member states may be less able to keep a close eye on their own citizens. i have the impression that it is not appreciated when citizens take better care of themselves. finally, mr president, more european internal security means more cooperation. but that requires more democratic control at european level. does the european commission also have a proposal on how we can increase the democratic content of our security policy?
we are talking today about security in europe and the commission's new security agenda. we all agree that security and the protection of fundamental rights must go hand in hand. there's a lot of attention here and in the media for the european jihadists, but what about the homeless, radicalized young people who don't travel to is territory but can be just as dangerous? is the commission paying attention to this group? i welcome the commission's emphasis on prevention and countering radicalisation. this is gonna take a lot more energy. in addition, potential terrorists are often already known to the intelligence services. the focus should therefore be on better tracking of these suspects. instead of collecting more and more data, the main objective is to improve cooperation between member states, with more and better information sharing. finally, an open democratic society must also be protected from extremists who do not share our values. i therefore ask the commission whether it is prepared to come forward with a proposal for a common european entry ban on hate preachers coming from outside europe to radicalise our young people in our cities.
we pay at the request of brussels, we cut at the request of brussels and we will soon be prosecuting at the request of brussels. to realise the euro-friendly dream of a united states of europe, you need not only a european flag, a european currency and a european anthem, but also a european public prosecutor's office. the netherlands and ten other countries drew a yellow card and got a middle finger back from brussels. and before the european public prosecutor's office is established, a debate is being launched on the extension of powers. we must not only relinquish the prosecution of fraud to the eu, but in the future also the prosecution of terrorism, child abduction and other crossborder crime. investigation and prosecution is a national matter. the eu has no place in this area. this isn't about tackling fraud or fighting terrorism, this is about power. we are being rolled into the united states of europe, where there is no place for the nation state. i hope my colleagues will bear this in mind when they vote on this report tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, how many times have we been here discussing illegal eavesdropping, spying on our citizens, spying on politicians, spying on journalists and harassing whistle-blowers? can we repeat all the hashtags: nsa, prison, belgacom, gemalto. mr voss, would you be just as complacent if we were not talking about the american secret services here but the chinese secret services? would you then say: well, hey, that is what secret services do, they spy on people? get over it! we happen to have rules on this continent. who is going to protect the right of our citizens? who is going to protect the privacy of our citizens, mr voss? clearly the epp does not care about privacy, the rule of law or international law. the citizens should not expect any protection from your side. i understand that the commission is saying it is the sole competence of the member states and there is not a whole lot we can do. incidentally, i note that the council – again – is absent. if there is any institution that does not care very much about citizens’ rights, it is the council. somebody needs to do it and i refuse to accept that all of this is legal and acceptable. when are we finally going to get some answers? because if this is what friendly nations do to us, then i wonder what unfriendly nations are going to do to us. mr voss said: we have no proof. of course we have no proof. they are called secret services for a reason because what they do is secret. that is why we have oversight, mr voss – mr voss who is not listening. we need oversight urgently; we need to have european rules that apply to the cross-border activities of secret services, because we must stand up for the rights of our citizens.
i too would like to thank the court of auditors for the annual report, especially as the court of auditors has identified a fundamental problem in the european budget. it is far too little focused on results. the court of auditors states that the member states use a method they call 'use it or lose it'. the possible results of expenditure are of little importance. i will give you two examples of special reports from the court of auditors in the last year in which expenditure was found to be without demonstrable results. the first is the food processing industry programme, with a total budget of eur 5.6 billion, and the second is the programme for nature-friendly measures under the rural development fund: the commission has already over 16 billion in total over the seven-year budget period. i can't believe this! so much money and no results. we must therefore tackle non-results with the utmost urgency. a fundamental change in the european budget is badly needed. i am therefore pleased that my idea of setting up a special advisory group to this end has been accepted by the committee on budgetary control.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the images of hundreds of dead bodies floating in the mediterranean is profoundly horrifying, but the most tragic aspect of this disaster is that it is avoidable – people have died unnecessarily. my group fully supports the joint resolution, and i am glad that we are sending a very strong signal to the commission – and the council in particular, which i think needs this message. we welcome the swift convening of the council, but the outcome of their meeting is totally inadequate; this has been said here before. and we welcome the fact that the budget for rescue operations has been restored to the original levels and not tripled, as has been said. but more funding is necessary, as well as the use of a humanitarian visa. we must fight the ruthless criminals who get rich trading in human lives. now, giving asylum to those who have fled war and persecution is a legal as well as a moral duty. this year alone, 2 000 people have drowned in the mediterranean. but some politicians are shamelessly exploiting this tragedy for their own populist, xenophobic, anti-eu agenda. some merely call for closing the borders. that is cheap rhetoric; it is not a solution. but some, like mr farage here, are inventing scare stories about these operations bringing in thousands of jihadists into europe. but mr farage knows full well that this is complete and utter nonsense and that it is about as likely as thousands of martians coming to europe. but he is not interested in the truth; he is only interested in getting elected. the public consultation by mr orban has already been mentioned. mr orbán, too, is using this tragedy in the mediterranean for his own populist purposes and quite frankly, dear mr weber, dear mr brok, this is not about national politics. if anything this is about the european values that we stand for, and i hope that the epp will finally decide to expel mr orban. incidentally, these are not media reports; it is on the government website. europe urgently needs policies for legal immigration. the reality is that our continent is rapidly shrinking as part of the world population. europeans accounted for approximately 20% of the world population in the 1950s, whereas now we are a mere 7%. we need immigration in order to maintain our prosperity. talking about legal migration is controversial and maybe not very popular, but that is what leadership is all about. it is not about finding the lowest common denominator or only taking easy and popular decisions. leadership is about the courage to take tough decisions, and i welcome the words of mr juncker, who is indeed showing leadership in this respect – and i wish that the council would do the same. and i hope that parliament will show that leadership today. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– most of the people that we are actually talking about, who we refer to as ‘foreign fighters’, are actually home-grown. they are eu citizens and, if anything, europe has been exporting terrorists and jihadists travelling over there. what we are talking about here today is rescuing people who are drowning in the mediterranean because they are fleeing war and conflict, and exactly the people that you are talking about; it has nothing to do with a flood of jihadists coming to europe. that is only invented by mr farage to get himself elected on 7 may; i think it is populist and despicable. (applause)
tens of thousands of young men from africa and the middle east are coming to lazy europe in old boats and luxury yachts, lured by the promise of free money from socialists who have completely lost their way. when you have walked behind the camels for generations or laid in front of your palm-tree hut, when you cannot even read or write, then continue to do so in your own country. the eu needs skilled and hardworking people, not opportunists and profiteers and certainly not jihadists and other scum. if you cross the mediterranean, you're going to be picking up instead of delivering. we don't want these guys here. australia shows how to do it: intercept and tow! the result: no boat refugees in 2014 and no deaths! frontex, get to work! go back towing boats and destroying them there, even if it's a libyan port. if you can wait there with hundreds of thousands of people for your golden ticket to the eu, then it is safe enough to return there too.
mr president, i am afraid that my green colleague was right. yesterday it was announced during the plenary debate that paragraphs 43 and 44 would not fall if the amendment on paragraph 42 were to be adopted. so he is absolutely right that we do have to vote on these two paragraphs. (applause)
in writing. ‒ during the discharge process, i proposed that member states be encouraged to improve management and control. a majority of the european parliament has supported this and i am glad of that. the european parliament now calls on the member states to make greater use of the national declaration. the netherlands and some other member states have been doing this for years and it is high time that all member states followed suit. this would help to ensure the soundness of eu expenditure and bring about an auditors' approval by the european court of auditors. since the european court of auditors still cannot give a discharge for eu expenditure, i find it incomprehensible that a majority can give the european commission a discharge without a fight. however, the postponement of discharge is warranted, and i therefore do not support the rapporteurs' proposals. delay would put more pressure on the member states and the european commission to actually reduce the error rate.
in writing. ‒ the pvda delegation in the european parliament would like to make a statement on a vote change in the discharge report for 2013. the vote will be taken on rule 56 of the report, which calls on the mepranking and votewatch websites to provide insight into their funding from parliament. while we support the call as such in light of the need for transparency, the delegation cannot agree with the deplorable qualifications used by the report for these websites. the article also ignores differences between the services of votewatch and mepranking.
madam president, the wilful destruction of civilisation’s most cherished creations, which are a symbol of humanity itself, hurts all of us, as the global heritage which is centuries old is irreplaceable. this cultural cleansing, which amounts to a war crime, is a part of the ethnic cleansing of people at the hands of da’esh or is. these inhumane deeds and the criminal trade in cultural goods – now the third largest in the world – must be stopped. the destruction of cultural heritage is an integral part of the jihadist terrorist misguided, dogmatic campaign of death and hatred. such destructive acts can never be legitimised by claiming to act in the name of god or a holy text. to meet the broad challenges in the middle east, of which this is one, we need a strong europe in the world. the eu must treat the destruction of cultural heritage as an integral part of an effective strategy to eliminate isis and to reinstate stability in the middle east, or at least help make that happen.
in the year 832, the then caliph of baghdad visited egypt and there he ordered his soldiers to demolish the great pyramid of giza. after months of effort, his soldiers still had little visible result. attempts to demolish this pre-islamic monument were therefore halted. this illustrates that islam is trying to erase all visible memory of what preceded it. islam has always wanted that, not just now in northern iraq and northern syria. genocide is the denial of genocide, and jihad is the erasure of all memories of the victims of jihad. i therefore ask the commission and anyone who hears or reads this not only to remember those victims but also to do everything in their power to ensure that europe is spared the same fate, because the enemy is already at our gates.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, last month former president nasheed, the first democratically-elected president of the maldives, was sentenced to 13 years in prison. charges of inciting terrorism, which not many people find credible, indicate that this trial is politically motivated. we call on the maldivian authorities to ensure that the appeals procedure meets free and fair trial standards and that former president nasheed gets access to a lawyer, access to doctors when needed, and has access to the advisers and lawyers he needs. the maldives are seeing a broader, worrying pattern of human rights violations. we have seen the disappearance of journalist ahmed rilwan, which is still unsolved, and the ban on peaceful protests is very troubling. the rise of jihadists and is recruitment in the maldives – in a disproportionately high number – is also very troubling to us. and as many european tourists enjoy their vacations on the bounty islands of the maldives, we as the eu call for them to be warned of the possible risk and the risk of instability in these islands. we hope that stability, the rule of law and due process, and fair trial for the former president are immediately restored.
the report by mr preda rightly emphasizes in paragraph 20 the danger of jihadism on the territory of bosnia and herzegovina. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the fact that a large number of bosnian jihadists are on the battlefields of syria and iraq speaks volumes about this. this brings me to two questions to the commission and more specifically to commissioner hahn, who is responsible for this. i would rather have a written answer to that than no answer at all or a very superficial answer. 1) how dangerous to the internal stability of bosnia and herzegovina does the commission consider the presence of salafist enclaves in the country? the inhabitants of these enclaves reject the bosnian state and demand the introduction of sharia law. 2) to what extent is the commission actively involved in countering the recruitment of bosniaks for jihadist terrorist organizations in the middle east? i would prefer a written reply, because if i have it on paper, i can think about it further. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).)
"blue card" is the answer. i can answer that very briefly, mr castaldo. you are raising a very sensitive point here, because this applies not only to bosnia and herzegovina but to all the countries of the european union from which jihadists have left, often via turkey, for syria and iraq. in short, bosnia and herzegovina is joining us. this is a common problem and we must also be willing to face it together. but there's a lot of looking the other way. stories are often told of numbers of jihadists that are not real but an underestimation. bosnia and herzegovina is an example of this. my country suffers from that same look-away attitude.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i know that my colleague’s report is not about mr juncker’s investment plan, but i would like to touch on one issue which is really important for parliament: it is about the additionality of new projects of the juncker investment plan. to our great surprise, we saw the press release of last week, indeed of 22 april. if you look at the four projects, is this now really additionality? is this really ‘no more business as usual’? is this really the innovative europe that the juncker investment plan should be working on? you admitted yourselves that these projects would have got the money anyhow and that these projects were not indeed new. we are talking about the enlargement of an airport in croatia and about the green economy, but still the commission is saying these are examples of the juncker investment plan. well, this stresses the need for parliament to be far more clear on additionality in the negotiations because, otherwise, it is just business as usual.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a leading role in the world. we produce high quality food and meet the strictest food safety, environmental and animal welfare standards. a rapidly growing world population is raising the demand for food. agricultural land and raw materials, on the other hand, are becoming scarcer. so we have to produce more with less. with our innovations and the entrepreneurship of our farmers and gardeners, we can meet this challenge. legislation and regulation should encourage this, not inhibit it. too often we see regulations that do not correspond to practice. a good example is the innovation to make animal manure into a mineral concentrate that can be used as fertilizer. it is incomprehensible that the european commission should stand in the way of this sustainable innovation. the world is coming together at the milan world's fair. so it's a great opportunity to show the world what our farmers and gardeners are capable of.
food for the planet, energy for life. with such a theme, the milan world's fair is raising high hopes for sustainability and food security. but this event is in danger of being hijacked by big companies like coca cola and mcdonalds. these food giants benefit from overproduction and are more concerned about their own market position than about food distribution. the resolution does not mention that. it focuses not only on sustainability but also on increasing and intensifying food production. but that food production is already very high. we're already supplying more food than the world needs. the earth provides enough for everyone's needs. yet, a billion people go to bed hungry every day. one billion people! how could you do that? where does all this food go? well, we're throwing some of that food away. and part of that is making biofuels. but most of our food is fed to animals in the livestock industry. 70 percent of our land is used for animal feed production. and if we gave that to people, we could easily feed four billion more people. we do not need to increase or intensify food production. we need a transition to sustainable, fairly produced local food, and especially a transition from animal to plant food. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
for the ecr group the xylella bacteria has a serious impact on olive trees and has been spreading since 2013. in that year, efsa wrote, among other things: "to be effective, containment should include removal of infected plants". my first question to the commissioner is: has this measure been implemented in time to prevent spread? with regard to international trade: the eu import system is working well. plants are allowed to cross the border unless they're carrying a disease. specific risks may require increased controls. so that's risk-based. i would like to ask the commissioner specifically to continue to apply a risk-based approach in the future.
every farmer knows how terrible it is when your crops or livestock fall ill out of your control. the xylella outbreak has led to the closure of over 200 plant species yesterday. this is a huge financial loss. the italian government's decision not to enforce european legislation rigorously was a bad choice in terms of the consequences. firm and targeted controls are a better solution. the current rules must be strictly observed. i call on the european commission to provide more clarity in writing as soon as possible on the duration and scope of the import ban. i would also like to know the reasons why the european commission is considering a default decision against italy. finally, i am curious to see how the commissioner for better regulation will ensure that joint agreements are also unambiguously respected. europe is a trading powerhouse. incidents such as these should not be an excuse to change the current open import system.
i share the concerns of my colleagues from france, spain and italy. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. recently, the port of rotterdam has been repeatedly singled out in the media as a transit port for the dangerous bacterium. the netherlands is the only member state to have been on high alert for xylella following the 2013 outbreak in italy. the point is that the current rules should be better observed. i do not think that stricter rules in the form of a blockade for the internal market are a wise move at all, because the same market is of great importance for the agricultural and horticultural sector in europe, including countries not affected by xylella. the financial implications could be huge. if we move to a closed import system, the research costs of allowing certain plant and tree species onto the european market could be as high as eur 50 000 per species, and we certainly do not want that.
in writing. ‒ this resolution mandates the european commission to intervene in depth in the internal affairs of bangladesh. as regrettable as the situation in bangladesh is, it is up to bangladesh itself to shape its social and economic system. the eu is not about that. it is also up to the member states to decide which imported products they allow on the market and what requirements they impose as regards origin and method of production. the pvv therefore votes against.
in writing. this motion for a resolution will only lead to more illegal immigrants venturing across the mediterranean. by strengthening search operations at sea and thereby increasing the suction effect, the authors of this resolution will achieve the exact opposite of what they are aiming for, namely more deaths at sea. the pvv believes that this flow of illegal immigration must be stopped. the eu must therefore stop facilitating human trafficking and encouraging illegal immigration and instead make clear that the mediterranean shuttle service has come to an end. the focus should be on returning illegal immigrants to their countries of origin or departure, and on providing them with shelter in the region. this will of course put an end to the flow of illegal immigrants and the tragic incidents at sea. australia has already proven that this approach works.
the vvd fully recognises the humanitarian drama unfolding in the mediterranean. all drowning people must be rescued. the vvd is not convinced, however, that the measures proposed in the resolution will be able to reduce or prevent such tragedies in the future. the focus on the reception of refugees in the region is lacking and no measures are proposed to prevent the departure of refugees from the libyan coast to the eu. the vvd considers the provision of humanitarian visas to eu embassies to be wrong in view of the sucking effect, and is against the imposition of refugee quotas on member states from brussels.
in writing. ‒ the drowning deaths of so many refugees and migrants in recent weeks and months is appalling. europe cannot allow this to happen. i am in favour of a substantial financial, operational and territorial extension of triton, with contributions from all the member states and the european commission. i am also in favour of greater cooperation between member states and eu agencies and a partial extension of the responsibilities of these agencies. at the same time, the situation in the source countries must be improved and the reception in the region improved, for example with winter and summer tents. member states can also resettle more refugees currently staying in un camps in the region. it is also crucial to tackle the criminal traffickers, including through prosecution, financial and other sanctions, and the confiscation and destruction of their assets. as regards the issue of humanitarian visas, member states should be free to decide whether or not to issue them. as regards the necessary partial redistribution of asylum seekers among the member states, the council should take the lead, not the commission.
in writing. ‒ the european union has granted trade advantages to bosnia and herzegovina in the past in order to export to the eu at a profit. the european commission is now proposing to allow these trade advantages to be suspended if bosnia and herzegovina is guilty of violations of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is good that europe is putting these human rights ahead of commercial interests. the proposal also calls for the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the eu. enlargement of the european union is unwise as long as it does not function democratically. the party for the animals is opposed to the accession of new member states in the present circumstances and cannot therefore agree with the commission's proposal. in order not to block the respect of human rights, abstention from voting was chosen.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, we strongly condemn this week’s cruel executions by firing squad of eight people in indonesia, seven of whom were not even indonesian citizens. not only has the european union, along with australia, strongly appealed to the authorities not to go ahead with the executions, the eu also offered assistance to the indonesian authorities in tackling drug trafficking. punishing convicted criminals can be done in more humane ways and must always be preceded by a fair trial. we call for a halt to all pending executions in indonesia. colleagues, it is quite ironic, and actually shameful that on the day that we heard the appalling news of indonesia’s executions, viktor orbán, whose party still remains a member of the ppe group, suggested that the death penalty would be reinstated in hungary. such proposals are entirely inappropriate. as mr orbán knows very well, the death penalty is banned in europe. i think we should be proud of that, as well as of our international efforts to end the death penalty, to limit its application and to seek countries putting a moratorium on this cruel and inhumane punishment. we have set the bar, as europe, and intend to keep it rising, as liberal democracies. it would strengthen the voice of democracies in making appeals to countries such as indonesia if the united states would stand side by side with europe and would also outlaw the death penalty. we will – and we must – continue our efforts globally by working with governments and civil society organisations to ensure that the death penalty will soon belong to the past.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the people in yarmouk, syria, face a particularly horrible situation, as do many other innocent people in syria. they are attacked by the nihilist jihadists of da’esh and with barrel bombs and other attacks by the murderous regime of president assad. the war in syria must be stopped and the eu must lead efforts, diplomatic and otherwise. humanitarian aid will require much more money, not only from the eu but especially from arab countries and others who have not taken up their share of the burden. we have heard the massive outcry after the horrible and tragic deaths in the mediterranean; i share the sense of sorrow. and the immense misery of the people in and from syria and the rest of the middle east region must be met with a more forceful answer from europe. when we speak of shelter in the region, at least the most basic of needs must be provided for and it must be safe for people. indeed – and i agree with my colleague, josef weidenholzer – we must bring to justice the perpetrators of these atrocious crimes and attacks against innocent people.
mr president, my group would support the proposal from the greens, and we would also support that a resolution be taken in may. what you have just said only underlines the urgency for parliament to express itself on this matter and we should not wait. my group will wholeheartedly support the proposal.
the rapporteur. - tomorrow we shall be voting on crucial legislation: the regulation on benchmarks used in financial instruments and financial contracts. the last few months have been a blast. investigations, billions in fines, headlines about fraud and embezzlement in the financial sector. the reason this time: the 4pm fixed benchmark, a benchmark price on which exchange rates of all major currencies are based. and the libor scandal also brought another record fine, this time for deutsche bank. the myth that benchmark fraud is the work of a few bad apples within a few banks has been finally broken. manipulation has occurred and is occurring in all sectors, including large and important benchmarks. all of this demonstrates the importance of benchmark indices for financial stability and also the need for good regulation to prevent manipulation of these types of systemically important benchmarks in the future. the legislation we are voting on tomorrow is designed to protect the stability of the financial system and the real economy. this means that there must be sufficient safeguards for large benchmarks such as libor or the benchmarks for currency exchange that we all use on a daily basis. but the rules must also ensure that a wide and diverse range of indices remains possible, both within and outside europe. indeed, a large supply allows investors to switch and switch to other benchmarks. without alternatives, more and more instruments and contracts will be linked to a shrinking set of indices, resulting in greater market concentration, more power for the producers of the big indices and, of course, greater risks to the financial system and the economy. competition in the benchmark industry fosters innovation, reduces systemic risk and enhances market discipline. this means that there should be a balanced treatment in the regulation for smaller benchmarks. the report, as it stands, offers that balance, a balance between large and small benchmarks, between financial and commodity benchmarks, and between those benchmarks produced in the eu and outside. that balance is badly needed to protect consumers, to grow capital markets, to promote economic recovery and also to achieve the vision and goals of a european capital markets union. i think that is also why the economic affairs committee supported the text with a majority of 48 votes in favour and only 10 against. fortunately, that support came from parties on both the left and the right. i would like to thank my fellow negotiators, the shadow rapporteurs, very warmly for the collegial and constructive way in which they contributed to the preparation of the report. i very much look forward to continuing that cooperation in a good way during the trialogue. i call on all the groups to support this report so that we can move quickly and with a strong mandate into these trialogue discussions so that after almost two years of discussion we can actually have good benchmark legislation in place by the end of this year.
i would like to thank all the speakers for their input and their valuable contribution today. i'm very pleased with the broad support. of course, we have not been able to make everyone 100% happy, but i am glad that the report as a whole is widely supported by all of you. i would like to welcome the expressions of appreciation and the compliments, but i would also like to share them with my colleague, koen ter wal, who has put a lot of hard work into this. i should also like to mention the policy adviser to the alde group, petra, and the people in the secretariat of the committee on economic affairs. because this was my first report and it is quite a search to go through all the procedures in this parliament. so i'm also very grateful to everyone who has contributed in that way. i would like to say to mr monot that he is very wrong in thinking that the critical benchmarks are only libor and euribor, because that is not the case. it is not for nothing that we have added qualitative criteria to the quantitative criteria, so that there must always be an evaluation to see whether something is a critical benchmark or not. i shall not go into the substance of the matter, because that would take too long. i very much look forward to the trialogue with the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, with the commission and the council, in order to take those important steps towards proper regulation of benchmarks as soon as possible.
development aid is not about taking from the rich and giving to the poor: it's taking from the poor and giving to the rich. the most striking example is the 234 million euro transferred by the european commission to mr mugabe. mr mugabe who then, as a token of appreciation, had two elephants slaughtered and a large barbecue. this 234 million euros is hard earned tax money. money that people in the netherlands and the rest of europe have to work hard for. these people pay that tax on the assumption that it is being handled with care. but what is the european commission doing? who gives this hard-earned money to a corrupt african dictator! how hard can it be to get along with people who pay taxes?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to thank the commissioner for her statement. i think we all agree that cigarette smuggling and counterfeit cigarettes must be tackled. the problem is that the cooperation with the cigarette manufacturers originally arose from a legal settlement. we are now many years later and it has become clear that the tobacco industry is continuing its lobbying, including against the tobacco directive. that a lawsuit is even being brought against the european commission over the tobacco directive. they're not exactly friendly guys, i'd say. they are also no longer the guys that the international community, with the world health organization at the forefront, thinks you should treat like any other lobbyist or corporation. we have strict rules: if i receive a tobacco lobbyist in my office, i must not only tell him that i had that contact, but also tell him exactly what it was about, what material i received. we are asking the commission to do exactly the same thing. you have contacts with the tobacco industry - extremely sensitive - and you are obliged to give us all the material, not just to us members of parliament, but to the people, that the tobacco industry gives you. i would like the commissioner to give me his assurance that the people of europe will have access to this material.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think it is a good sign that we are having this debate with the commissioner in charge of the digital market, although i am wondering who is really in charge, because i would say that this is a taxation matter. i have been doing a bit of digging, and sometimes that gives you funny results. for example, commissioner, one of the first questions relating to the application of the higher vat rate to e-books was introduced by mrs thyssen, who was then a member of parliament and who is now actually your colleague. mrs thyssen was very worried about the higher vat rates on, i quote, ʽbooks published on cd-rom or dvdʼ. now that was in 2009 – the commission has not even started to think about solutions but cd-roms are no longer used for e-books. so the key words here are speed and urgency. because i have also submitted a series of questions over the years, and in the answer to one of my questions in 2013 the commission replied that it ʽis currently examining this issueʼ – blah di blah di blah – ʽand these elements will be taken on board in completing the impact...ʼ. in other words, already back in 2013 the commission was looking into it. so what are you waiting for? the digital market, as you well know commissioner, is developing much more rapidly than this. we are legislating at flintstone speed but the digital market is moving on. it is not waiting for us, and if you say 2016, well by then so many small businesses will have gone down already because they cannot survive. why does the commission have to wait until 2016? why cannot you just start tomorrow? if, commissioner, you go back to the commission and to the member states and tell them that we need action now, i think that the whole parliament will back you up because everybody here is echoing the same message. so i would say, commissioner, let us get to work tomorrow.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to be involved in the fight against terrorism. they may not start it. they may start out because of ideological differences, but they often go on for longer because of raw materials. governments and rebels fund themselves, and that brings us to the chicken or the egg question: is the raw material the cause of the war or is the war caused by the raw material? what is clear is that commodities finance wars. if you take that away, and we've done that before, you take away the funding and you might stop the war. think of what we've done to the garden furniture. hardwood is currently certified, not voluntarily, but compulsorily. think of what we've done to the diamond trade. that is not a voluntary arrangement. that's a mandatory policy. we have seen in recent years that voluntary rules are never respected. european companies have been able to comply with the oecd guidelines for the certification of products containing conflict minerals since 2011. they're not doing it! the commission's proposal now on the table, voluntary self-certification, will therefore have the same shortcoming as all other voluntary systems. the commission's proposal on international trade limits it to only 20 european smelters and refiners and does not take the large quantities. you all have phones. you have it all laid out for you, you work with it every day. there are no phones that are made in europe. they're all made in china. this type of device will not be covered by european legislation and that means that no consumer can ask: where did this stuff come from? and the chinese companies will not have to abide by our european rules. this is about war in the congo, about women being raped, about children working in the mines. we can stop that. this is not about the german automobile industry and their problems with bureaucracy!
mr president, it is essential that trade policies are a key element in broader eu foreign policy goals, such as conflict resolution, human rights and development. that is why we need effective measures to break the link between the world’s most terrible conflicts and the role the trade in minerals plays in them; a link that currently leads from war to our living rooms. we must make a clear distinction between legitimate mining and trading in blood-stained minerals globally. for our group, the commission proposals – which were mostly voluntary measures – did not go far enough. we put forward amendments with mandatory schemes for smelters and refiners, which are the key players in this market and cover most of the global market. we also called for support mechanisms for small and medium-sized enterprises in their efforts to ensure due diligence and compliance, because consumers deserve transparency. through a review, we ensure that adequate enough mechanisms are in place to make sure that we accomplished in practice what we hope to accomplish now with this regulation. there are important lessons to be learned from the past, such as from the dodd-frank act which unintentionally led to congo-free instead of conflict-free implications and hurt many people in their legitimate work and livelihoods. we should not hurt people with our good intentions. so meanwhile, while we focus on these important trade measures, let us look at the bigger picture too and keep an eye on all measures that are needed to end conflict all over the world, especially in the great lakes regions.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. there will be many opportunities to talk to the commissioner about the individual proposals and we will be happy to do so. my group will pay particular attention to the interests of consumers and the interests of smes. i would like to give you some more general considerations in this debate today. then i look back to the first time i went online myself. it was a whole new world, it was an open world and a safe haven. i was able to connect with people in other parts of the world. i could make my own website. i could be creative on the internet. now we're 20 years ahead. and if i look at what's happening now, we have governments on one side, intelligence agencies that want to know a lot of us and don't want the internet to be so free. we also see big companies. we know the commission is going after google. but we also have companies like amazon, facebook. it's becoming more and more the internet of the multinationals. i hear - and i agree - that innovation is of great importance to the european economy. and that includes the internet. but then the internet must remain the place for creativity and innovation, and that can only happen when the internet is free and open. i respect the commission's action against google. but keep going, take on the other multinationals, and make sure that the internet stays open to small businesses, to innovation, and to people, so that we can continue to be creative with each other.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to request that the vote on the draft legislative regulation be postponed under rule 61(2) of the rules of procedure.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i think that, in itself, the presence of prime minister orbán in parliament is very welcome. but i hope i will not disappoint him by not spending too much speaking time on him because, like in the carly simon song, this debate is not about him. the council’s non-statement for me signals the moral bankruptcy of the council and the fact that you are completely detached from the treaties. (applause)yes, colleagues, we can have a debate about the death penalty and it can be very short. i reject it completely, my group rejects it completely. it has no place in europe, it has no place in egypt, it has no place anywhere in the world – end of debate. but the death penalty issue is just a distraction from a much more serious issue and that is the immigration questionnaire. that, commissioner, is official government policy, it is not just somebody’s opinion. so what will the commission actually do? has the commission undertaken a legal analysis of its compatibility with the charter of fundamental rights, and has it checked how it sits with the agreed asylum and immigration policies of the european union? the commission has a duty to act. i much agree with your very critical blog, but i expect more of the european commission. now, as for the epp, having listened to mr weber, to me it is crystal clear. epp: you may choose critical words but you are squarely behind prime minister orbán and his policies. that is your right but at least the people know where the epp stands now. there is no more doubt and, to be clear, alde rejects the policies of mr orbán and his government. now the situation in hungary only underscores the urgent need for a mechanism to monitor the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states because – and there i agree with you, mr weber – we need a mechanism to fill the gap between weak legal tools on the one hand, and the nuclear option of article 7 on the other hand, and that is why my group, the alde group, has proposed a democratic governance pact, and i know that in other groups people are also considering mechanisms for the enforcement of fundamental rights, because we urgently need that. i know, commissioner timmermans, that you say that fundamental rights, the rule of law cannot be measured or quantified, but i think they can. i think this parliament should, as a joint exercise, develop proposals for such a mechanism and i hope that i will find the commission and the commissioner on my side, to jointly defend the values that you and i hold dear, commissioner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is very clear. if any country in the european union votes to restore the death penalty, well they have the right to vote that way, but they cannot be a member of the european union at the same time, that is very clear for me. (applause)
words can be like petals, but words can also be like bullets and we're all politicians here and what we do is work with words. well, mr orbán's words are not a flower petal. it's usually bullets. i don't always think it has to be petals, but you do have a responsibility for what you say, and when words become bullets, other people will respond, perhaps not with words but with deeds. and that is the danger we create the moment you start talking about the death penalty or the moment you hold a very colourful consultation of your people. that is what happens when you come here to explain your views on migration and the european commission's plans. if you say: we shouldn't open the floodgates. such language is aggressive and irresponsible for a prime minister of a country. that's the kind of responsibility i expect from you.
rapporteur.– madam president, thank you to my co-rapporteur, mr kariņš, to the shadows who have helped us in this term and in the previous term, to the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, roberto gualtieri, and thanks to the council, particularly the italians, and the commission. it has been a very long process. we started in the previous term and we managed to conclude last december, and let me remind you that we had a plenary vote before the elections that gave mr kariņš and myself a mandate that was very strong: 643 votes in favour of a public register for ultimate beneficiary owners and 30 against. it gave us a mandate that did not allow us to backtrack, and that i really appreciate. we acted on that and my motivation has always been to deal with tax avoidance and tax evasion. we had thabo mbeki visiting this house and he said that the amount of money fleeing out of africa because multinationals are not paying their taxes in the country where the work is done is immense. we had the scandal with the son of the former president of the ukraine, who put the money he stole from the ukrainian people into a shell company in the netherlands and then we had luxleaks. that helped to clarify why we are doing this. the fatf and the commission made tax offences a predicate offence, which is good, which helped us work, and then we created this public register on ultimate beneficiary owners. it is article 30. we agreed to have 28 registers. there are countries that do not have an ultimate beneficiary ownership register at the moment and they are now obliged to have one. in future, these 28 registers will be interconnected, allowing people to search from shell company to shell company, from country to country. who can look at these registers? well the authorities, of course, they have full access, the obligatory entities – banks, casinos, etc. – but also anybody who has a legitimate interest, anybody who can show they have an interest in looking at them because of money-laundering, terrorism and issues like corruption, tax crime and fraud. so in the near future journalists and ngos and every citizen in europe will be able to look at the register and make sure that we collectively clean up our act, that we do not allow shell companies to steer away funding, to steer away tax money that can be used for education, for health, for everything we need in our society. i am proud of that, and if member states want to go further than that, if they want to add more causes, they can, and i think they should. we cleaned up the data protection and may i thank commissioner jourová, because as soon as the file moved from dg markt to dg justice we got a better hearing on the issue of data protection. so we made sure that the data subject, the person who wants to know something – perhaps they have a feeling that something went wrong with their data – has rights to redress, without tipping off criminals, but they have the right to redress. we respect data retention rules. data retention is set at five years and i am happy to have that. that is article 40. so let us make this an example for other countries in the world. would it not be fantastic if the usa were to follow us, would it not be marvellous in our fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion? i want everyone to help us reach that.
money laundering costs the global economy €1.3 trillion a year, a huge sum of money obtained illegally, for example, through human smuggling and drug trafficking. and that's now being brought into the mainstream economy. i think that's unfair. this new legislation will help us to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing by making economic ownership and risks clearer. i'm with you on that. that is good for fair trade. tackling fraudulent practices also does justice to businessmen and other law-abiding citizens, as they should. one note on data protection. can personal data obtained for money laundering be used for other purposes, for example commercial? i would like to hear the commissioner's answer to that, because she really has to keep her finger on the pulse here. wash whistle-blowers' ears, but make sure citizens and their data are well protected.
rapporteur.– mr president, many of my colleagues pointed out that the public register would not be ‘public’ because you have to have a legitimate interest. i would like to point out that we made sure that in the proposal it says that the authority has to clarify whether you do or not, so they have to prove that you do not have a legitimate interest. i would like the first journalist who has been told he or she does not have a legitimate interest to go to court, clarify it and, at the same time, open up the public register and make it even more public. i do not think any authority can say that you, as a citizen, do not have a legitimate interest to look into a register to look for fraud, corruption and anti-money laundering issues. you will get that access. it is also a self-fulfilling prophecy: if we start saying here that it has its limitations, it will have its limitations. if we say here, ‘let us try it out’, we will open up that register even more.
the question of a maternity leave directive has been discussed for years. it is not just the commission that is trying to impose the law on the member states, but also the european parliament, which is happy to dictate. the debate on the right to 20 weeks, 16 weeks or perhaps 40 weeks of leave should take place in national parliaments, not in this parliament. this directive is a typical example of unnecessary european interference and interference in national affairs. the commission promised fewer rules and less interference through mrs timmermans. a lot of yelling and a little wool. i call on the commission to honour its promise, to withdraw the proposal and above all not to come forward with a new proposal. sovereign states can very well set their own rules that take into account the interests of men, women and children. the resolution on the table today can therefore, as far as i am concerned, be thrown out of the window.
we all know that the first weeks after the birth of a child are crucial. during these precocious weeks, the extent to which the father can help in the household and whether the mother can return to full-time employment is determined. a well-regulated maternity leave is crucial for the whole life of the father, the mother and the child, and therefore also for our ageing economy and the competitiveness of the future. it is therefore very disappointing to see that the council sees pregnant women as a mere cost item and that the commission simply wants to withdraw the proposal without taking account of the judgment of the european court of justice. we in parliament have shown flexibility and a willingness to reach a common position in good consultation. we therefore ask the council and the commission to meet us there. unilateral withdrawal is not a credible option in this case. europe, as the founder of the principle of equal pay for equal work, must really give women the chance to catch up.
the european commission is proud to be fighting with the council to distribute refugees fairly across europe and i am therefore saddened that one member state after another is saying that it does not want to do so. the only approach which seems to be shared by the council is an approach of military action, of more border controls and of sending more people back. i heard you yesterday, commissioner timmermans, telling stories about the hungarian refugees who were welcomed with open arms in other european countries in 1956. those open arms, where are they now? they are not in the council, but they are not in you, commissioner, nor in the commission. the dublin revision is not in the proposals, and that is what you wanted so badly, mr avramopoulos. i thought we were going to see what we were doing to dublin. i can't find it back. i think there is a difference of opinion in the commission and that is why you are not making your proposals. you write in your own agenda that europe will be facing a demographic deficit in the near future. but you leave it at that. do i have to fill it out myself? an old continent surrounded by countries with young populations cannot limit itself to fighting illegal immigration by tightening controls. a rich continent surrounded by countries at war or in poverty cannot afford that. if there is work for low-skilled or low-paid workers then you will have to facilitate that too, because otherwise you will see illegality and illegal work increase. in the previous period we saw the directive on seasonal work. we should have built on that now. what about the proposals to facilitate the palestinian nannies, ladies who work for us illegally and no one else wants to do it? what about the circular migration proposals? mr. chairman, you can make a schedule for a week. you can make a calendar for a few months. you can make a schedule until the sea is rough again and the refugees stay on the other side for a while. but i expect the european commission to set out an agenda for the coming years, for the coming generation. and that, mr president, is not there. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i am happy to accept the invitation to visit a refugee camp in the czech republic. i greatly appreciate it from any country that takes in refugees. i do think that we are all still not doing enough. the resettlement of 20,000 people from refugee camps is a good thing that the member states do not want to do. but it's only a tiny bit. i would also like to say, and this is the last point, that there is a great deal of variation between countries in the way people are taken in, given status and given a real new life.
today we're going to discuss the immigration agenda. a first-class piece of shit. we have to redistribute the thousands of illegal immigrants. each country will be given a proportionate share of the number of illegal immigrants and terrorists. so if you think they will be affected by quotas, you have really misunderstood. they will move freely, for our borders are gone. and with the increasing flow of illegal immigrants, the dangers are only getting greater. not for these lucky people, for they are the ones for whom we are extending the rescue missions, but for the citizens of the european union. if you think it can't get any more idiotic, there's always mrs. mogherini: no refugees or migrants intercepted at sea will be sent back against their will. she said yesterday. the smugglers are the laughing parties, because they make you rich. and not to mention the islamic state terrorists who are travelling among the illegal immigrants and will sow death and destruction in the european union. the losers are the people of the european countries. our borders must be secure, watertight. real border patrol, like they do in australia. they send back the illegal immigrants, and they don't drown people off the coast. that's where we're going.
we've started the day very badly. we have seen that the council welcomed a decision which amounts to the deployment of military personnel, whereas the deployment of military personnel in libya was part of the problem which is at the root of the flow of refugees. we have seen a commission that is happy with a migration agenda, but has no say in the broken dublin system. it is planned to resettle 20 000 people over two years. the un is asking for 130,000 resettlement places. on the whole, european asylum policy, including dublin, is a mess. we should have started to identify that early this morning and then we should have looked at what the un refugee agency's proposals are. no one has mentioned the un action plan here, which does offer solutions: the european union is also responsible for ensuring that the refugees are resettled en masse, that they have good humanitarian visas and other safe routes to seek asylum and receive shelter in the region. we must help those countries in the region. i'd like to hear that. the current policy is a disgrace.
last monday, eu defence and foreign ministers decided to set up a european mission in the mediterranean to tackle the criminal networks of human smugglers. the member states have thus shown that, where the political will is present, they can act decisively and with unity. however, the willingness to address the other aspects of this same refugee problem, such as creating safe, legal routes for people in need and organising solidarity within the eu, is unfortunately much less. at the beginning of this debate the council did not even dare to mention the term 'refugee' and spoke only of the need to stop illegal immigration. the commission rightly points out in its new migration agenda that the answer to this humanitarian crisis lies in an integrated approach. it is therefore time for the council to come to that conclusion and to start providing a safe haven for those who need it most.
in writing. ‒ conflict minerals must be banned from the european market. at the same time, the local population must not be made the victim of european legislation. that is why i support a self-certification system. i would also like to stress that such legislation is not the solution but only a tool. the eu must work on the world stage to resolve conflicts and support governments in implementing the necessary reforms.
in writing. ‒ mining of minerals that eu countries import often leads to violent conflict, human rights abuses and environmental damage. the package of measures adopted today demonstrates the ambition to prevent minerals from conflict zones. that's a clear signal. for example, european companies must report on the origin of minerals they use, so that electronics and mobile phones made from raw materials from conflict areas can be banned. this prevents violent groups in conflict zones from financing their weapons by selling raw materials produced in their region. there will also be mandatory certification for tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, to ensure that they do not come from conflict zones. the party for the animals, however, believes that we must go further, with mandatory due diligence for all types of raw materials and not just these four. i also believe that all companies processing metals and minerals, and not just importers, both upstream and downstream in the supply chain, must demonstrate that their products are free of conflict minerals. i therefore abstained on the final vote on the commission proposal and i hope that parliament will manage to settle these matters in the negotiations with the council. only then will i agree fully.
in writing. ‒ while i support the intention of the resolution, maternity leave is primarily a national competence. that is why i am not in favour of new european rules in this area and i abstained.
the pvv voted today against the resolution calling for the council to reopen negotiations on the maternity leave directive. the pvv is not against extra days off for new fathers and extra rest for new mothers. we do not think, however, that this debate should be held in the european parliament, because social benefits are and must remain a national competence. it is therefore up to national governments to take decisions at the level of their own country.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, my thanks to the council and commission for their contributions to this debate. the eu and turkey are important strategic partners and it is in the interests of both to have close and effective cooperation. we encourage turkey to accelerate the pace of negotiations by clearly committing itself to respecting democratic values and principles. parliament continues to support the eu accession process of turkey as the cornerstone of our relations. however, in the report which will be voted on tomorrow we asked the commission to reassess the way in which the negotiations with turkey have been conducted so far, and how things can be further improved and intensified. at a time when we ourselves are having intensive discussions in the eu – and indeed this morning in this chamber – about how adequate protection can be given to refugees, we commend and praise all the efforts made by the turkish government in hosting more refugees than any other country in the world today. if we want to make sure that those in need of protection can find a safe haven in the region, we need to step up our efforts actively to assist turkey in providing adequate shelter, healthcare and education for refugees and their children. another area in which we strongly support and encourage efforts by the turkish government and all other stakeholders is the drive to achieve a comprehensive and sustainable conclusion to the peace process with the kurdish community. but there is also clear concern in this parliament about certain developments in turkey. these are issues at the core of the negotiation process, such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression and the freedom of the press. the pressure put on media outlets and journalists, which often results in the intimidation, dismissal or even arrest of journalists and widespread self-censorship, is of great concern to all of us. the recently adopted security package is, in our view, very wide in scope and bypasses the judiciary. most investigations into the events that occurred in gezi park in may and june 2013 are still pending, and too little progress has been made in identifying the alleged perpetrators. we believe that the eu should remain a benchmark for reforms in the country. that means that we do not want to shut the door to turkey, but we are calling for more dialogue and intensified engagement. the european parliament report provides several proposals in areas where we believe it is of mutual benefit to increase cooperation. these are foreign and security policy, anti-terrorism, energy security and also, of course, specifically, the field of fundamental rights. delivering the official opening benchmarks and a subsequent opening of chapters 23 and 24, which has just been referred to by the commission representative here, is the best way to promote truly effective reforms. we are ready to support turkey in developing solid democratic institutions and effective legislation based on respect for human rights, the rule of law and defence of the interests of all sectors of turkish society. finally, parliament also reiterates its strong support for the reunification of cyprus on the basis of a fair, comprehensive and viable settlement for both communities there. we very much welcome the fact that the leaders of both communities have officially resumed negotiations under the auspices of the un, and we believe that there is a unique window of opportunity now for a shared solution to the benefit of all cypriots. we expect that turkey and all relevant stakeholders will play a positive and constructive role in this delicate process. let me mention here my gratitude and my thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs on the turkey report, because if this had not been a joint exercise it would have been very difficult for me to stand here. i am happy that we have a united position on this here in parliament.
madam president, the annual progress report has sadly become a regress report. the concerns we have on the rule of law, separation of powers, human rights and fundamental freedoms are now even more substantial than in previous years as a result of the passing of security laws, restrictions on press and internet freedom, and an acknowledgment that evidence in a mass trial was actually doctored. that leads to key questions about fair trial and due process. i have always fought for the accession process as i believed it would lead to a win-win situation for the people in the eu and turkey alike, and i am sad to share how sombre i am about where things stand. now, are we only highlighting concerns? no. we also clearly stressed the importance of updating the customs union and of a common coordinated approach to foreign policy and humanitarian matters, but it must be crystal clear that an effective and credible eu—turkey partnership can only be based on solidly shared values and a common understanding of democratic principles, such as are laid down in the copenhagen criteria.
i was actually going to take one case to the european commission. a very serious matter. on 18 april 2007, a triple murder of christians took place in malatya, turkey, a horrific murder. a torture murder that was filmed by the suspects or the perpetrators, even with their phones. they were also arrested at the scene. now we're eight years later, and what do we find? these suspects are at large, much to the dismay and dismay of the relatives who were threatened during the hearings. it is also a shock to the members of the small turkish protestant community, who feel unsafe because of the intimidation by the perpetrators during the trial. they ask themselves: what is the right for christians in turkey? i called them again this afternoon to ask if there was any lead in this case. there have been 101 sessions. i would urge the commission to consult the turkish judicial authorities: how's this murder case coming along? the perpetrators are free and under so-called house arrest.
turkey has destroyed all progress since ataturk. christians, kurdish political opposition, journalists, judges, women are systematically oppressed with violence. the beast of ankara has given isis free rein in the battle for kobani, revealing its true agenda. turkey is heading towards an islamofascist dictatorship led by the dangerous islamist erdoğan. and what does the eu do? it rewards this misconduct. it feeds the beast that's gonna bite our throats off. it gives not less, but more money to dictator erdoğan, who has just spent 300 million on a megalomaniacal palace, 50 times bigger than the white house, in which he hangs the sultan. mr president, this country must never join the eu. i demand that this commission immediately stop all funding of this islamic dictatorship, give a detailed account of the spending of the billions it has received through and through corrupt turkey and immediately stop the negotiation process.
a lot has been said in this debate. on the one hand, criticism from the rapporteur, who has done a lot of work on this report. this is right, because in recent years and months turkey has done what is necessary and what is not in line with european values. the examples have already been given. but on the other hand, i also note that this rapporteur and this report want more than ever to open new chapters in the negotiations with turkey. let us not turn this around, ladies and gentlemen, because this will be seen in ankara as a reward and an encouragement, whereas as far as i am concerned there is no reason to rejoice and this is not the signal we want to send. does that mean i'm closing the door on turkey? no, i'm sure you didn't. we need to keep in touch with this important neighbor. we must continue to monitor progress on key benchmarks and, of course, continue to support the development of the rule of law from below. but perhaps we should dare to look each other in the eye in this parliament and in the european commission. because we have all entered a process, which is focused - as if we had blinders on - on membership and membership only. perhaps we can also come to the conclusion on both sides that it is better to invest - in a critical spirit - in an alternative partnership. it takes political courage to sometimes deviate from the beaten track and the pre-established standard route. the epp is in any case prepared to look at these alternatives in the same constructive spirit and i hope that other colleagues will also be inspired by this realism.
it's almost summer and it's almost eight years since the great financial crisis hit europe. banks were faltering, businesses were going under, and unemployment was skyrocketing. six million school leavers entered the labour market with poor prospects. youth unemployment is skyrocketing across europe. the european parliament has been committed to a new perspective for young people from the most affected regions. partly as a result of this effort, money is now available for pre-financing. programmes to help young people enter the labour market no longer have to wait for their national governments to provide co-financing. they don't have to waste time. but noblesse oblige, noblesse obliged. i'm not sure what you mean. in six months' time we will want to know whether we are on the right track, because we do not want an eighth generation of school leavers without prospects on the labour market.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group whales have been protected for 50 years, and an international ban on commercial whaling has been in place since the 1980s. and now, almost 30 years later, there are still countries that are not bothered by that ban, such as iceland, norway and japan. they hunt under false pretenses, killing 1,500 whales every year. and what has europe done to prevent these crimes? i don't know anything. it is time for europe to act. many species of whales are endangered and will go extinct if we don't do something now. besides, the whaling is downright horrible. japanese whalers chase the animals into the icy waters of the southern ocean and then harpoon them in the body. a long and gruesome death struggle ensues. then there's another point. in taiji, japan, many thousands of dolphins are hunted into a bay each year, herded together, and killed. a great slaughter is the result! i would welcome it if the council were to come up with a clear position, as the netherlands has already done in the fight against whaling. the whale hunt must stop and it can stop if europe puts pressure on japan through its trade policy. and then you're not going to negotiate a trade agreement, because countries that allow animals to go extinct to make money don't deserve support. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
it is indeed good news that the economy in the eurozone seems to be coming out of the doldrums. we're really going in the right direction. it's good that we see that the eurozone grew faster than the us economy in the first quarter. i am glad that the netherlands, the country from which i come, has an important role to play in this. but we're not there yet. i've heard it from colleagues. if we want to stabilise this, if we want to make real progress, then we really have to reform. and i think we can contribute to that. i would actually like to use the example of indian prime minister modi, because he said, as we have here: "we have to cut the red tape". the european commissioner frans timmermans has just presented his plans for this. i really hope he gets his act together and that this is a success. but prime minister modi added something to that. he said: "we have to replace the red tape with a red carpet for our businesses". and that red flag for our business, i don't see it so badly. we do have plans for an energy union, because energy prices are of course much higher than in other parts of the world. we really must make the single market work quickly. we are talking about a capital markets union, but we are still working on a green paper on that. we really need to try and get some speed on that. and what i 'm sure i 'll miss: the juncker plan talks about reindustrialisation and has remained deafeningly silent on this. so i would like to hear the commission's plans in the short term. which way are we going now? because if we want to solve that unemployment problem, the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. so we really need to give the companies the space to create those jobs and we also need to make sure that we explain the red carpet to the companies. [ the speaker will be answering a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
blue-card question.– mrs van nieuwenhuizen, you speak about cutting red tape and that is no surprise, coming from your position. but does cutting red tape also include the budgetary rules? we have many budgetary rules that do indeed frustrate structural reforms and frustrate public investment, and are not lived up to – for example the debt rule. how do you see this? is cutting this red tape also acceptable for you then?
"blue card" is the answer. i am surprised that mr tang says he understands that cutting red tape is something i really want, because it is notably his own euro commissioner, frans timmermans, who is putting a lot of work into it. of course we're for that. if you are talking about budgetary rules, then you are asking for the conventional way, because we absolutely believe that you should simply enforce the rules.
the growth figures give the impression of a united europe. there is a gentle economic recovery everywhere, but what those figures don't show are the underlying large differences. in germany, unemployment is lower than ever, and in greece, one in four people are unemployed. we expect the european semester to be coordinated. and it has to be more than a circus of reports and recommendations. the country-specific recommendations are completely inadequate. germany and the netherlands have a high trade surplus, but are only addressed on the railway market or on the pension system. so the rules are random, snap, that's not enough. this does not lead to mutual trust, but rather strengthens the contradictions. every country will have to contribute. we need a balanced approach, we need it hard.
author. itai dzamara, a human rights activist from harare, has been missing since 9 march. no one's heard from him since. his wife went to the central intelligence organization and the court. no one can tell where he is. the government says: he's not in our hands. whether that's true or not, we don't know, but we're over two months into the season, and the question is: how's he doing? is he still safe? whether he's still alive is even the question you can ask. it's a signal from us to president mugabe that he can't do everything he thinks he can do. after the 2013 elections, in which his zanu pf party won a majority, europe has reviewed its relationship with zimbabwe. it probably couldn't have been much different, because we'd been on the same route for a long time. but it didn't help. meanwhile, palace scenes are going on in his political party, and the idea of relaxation and normalization is gone, because he has pushed his wife forward as the new person. that gives me the impression that zimbabwe is not going to get any better in the next few years and that we have to be careful that there are not many more people like itai dzamara coming.
author.– mr president, we are shocked by the discovery of these mass graves in jungle camps in thailand of rohingya refugees who were murdered or simply left to die of disease and starvation. the resolution rightly calls on the thai government to conduct an immediate and credible investigation into these mass graves. at the same time, there needs to be a regional solution to the humanitarian crisis at sea with thousands of refugees stranded in very dire conditions. i welcome the commitment by indonesia and malaysia to actually take care of these stranded migrants, but we also have to call on all the countries in the region to take their responsibility and at least to participate in the summit in bangkok at the end of may. we also have to address the root causes of this crisis, and this is the continued persecution and discrimination of rohingya refugees in myanmar. the government must change its policy and must make sure that it does all that is necessary to respect the fundamental rights of all people on its territory.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, in august last year swazilandʼs prime minister dlamini called for the strangling of two trade union leaders. they had criticised the government for the terrible state of human, political and workersʼ rights in the country during the african summit in washington. despite appalling developments, swaziland still remains part of the eu gsp and as such is still granted trade preferences without fulfilling the preconditions to respect core human and labour rights and adhere to the principles of good governance. considering the shocking violations by the government of swaziland, the commission should follow the united states in investigating the violations of labour rights, protected under the gsp, and if confirmed, the commission should consider withdrawing the trade preferences granted. if the carrot is not working, now should be the time to show the stick.
madam president, i would like to propose to postpone the vote to the june session. there was only one week before the committee vote and the plenary vote with a lot of new amendments, and i think it is in the interest of all the groups that on such an important report as turkey we try to find a broad majority. in order to give us more time to do that, i would like to propose to postpone the vote until june.
just good jobs for everyone in europe and worldwide we achieve in three ways. firstly, by ratifying and respecting worldwide the rights of workers as enshrined in the core ilo conventions. secondly, by sustainable international supply chains with compulsory corporate responsibility for what happens in their supply chain. and thirdly, by providing transparency to consumers by labelling products made under decent working conditions. these are the three issues that germany has put on the agenda for the g7 summit next week. my appeal is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. only through the right to association can workers bring about a positive change in their working conditions and only through collective bargaining can they guarantee themselves a fair wage. too often, it is a reality on paper and workers' rights are trampled underfoot. so it's more than just a voluntary action in the countries where many of our products are made. the g7 will be able to increase its legitimacy by using its economic power to bring about real economic change. it is only through tough international agreements that something is done for the girls in the garment factories in bangladesh and for the miners who extract the conflict minerals for us. it would be nice if commission president juncker and council president tusk would support this mandatory method.
it is always welcome if we want to make european regulation simpler and more effective. but sometimes it is better to ask ourselves whether we want certain regulations at all. european school milk and fruit is one such scheme. a few years ago the european court of auditors concluded that the added value of a european school milk and fruit scheme is nil. europe wants to be big in big things and small in small things. i would therefore ask the european commission to consider the added value of a school milk and fruit scheme. the national member states are perfectly capable of setting up such schemes themselves. it does not require costly and unnecessarily complicated bureaucracy in brussels. sometimes we have to bite through the sour apple and dare to abolish rules. this is a project that has gone off the rails, and i understand the history very well, but i don't see the future. it has no clear purpose or added value. i shall therefore vote against this report.
in writing. as far as the party for the animals is concerned, the school milk and school fruit programmes can be reduced to one programme, namely a school fruit and vegetables programme. the school milk program can be abolished. milk is not as healthy as we may think. recent scientific research from sweden confirms this. for example, drinking milk increases the risk of bone fractures. we have also heard several members of parliament today talking about lactose intolerance, which is becoming more common among young people. advocating "to counter the decline in milk consumption among adolescents", as some here do literally, is thus an attack on public health. but it is also an attack on nature, on the climate and on the animals, which are being kept in ever more massive stables. we shouldn't exploit animals and milk them. we could spend the school milk budget on more school fruits and vegetables. and by doing so, we're reducing the negative impact of intensive livestock farming on our planet and giving children healthier food choices. we also think it is inappropriate to have european logos everywhere. this form of propaganda is outrageous symbolism on the backs of children. i also believe that all european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
for the greens/efa group i think that the main reason we have this debate on eritrea today is because commissioner mimica spoke to the press in addis ababa in march. he spoke of development cooperation for eritrea, mentioned an astonishing amount and linked it to the huge number of refugees leaving the country. i think it would be helpful if the commissioner could clarify the plans for development cooperation. in the past, of course, we had the european development fund for eritrea. a large part of it has not been spent because it is impossible to spend money on, for example, large-scale infrastructure projects in a country where the workers are not volunteers but, for example, conscripts who are actually slaves. the money allocated at that time has therefore not been spent. i can well imagine that you are now again trying to make funds available for this. but i wonder if you think we'll have spent the money in five years. and finally, this: if we start to argue that our development cooperation objectives are to prevent migration, we will never succeed. after all, an economy that improves will also have more migrants. why are we doing development cooperation with eritrea? to break the regime there and give people a better life.
the dutch people are sighing under tax increases. every month these people struggle to make ends meet. can you imagine how these people will feel when they hear that the european commission is going to transfer 312 million euros to the eritrean authorities? eritrea, by the way, is one of the most corrupt countries in the world and the country with the lowest score on the press freedom index, even lower than north korea. how on earth can i explain this to the people of the netherlands?
millions of girls worldwide have been forced into marriage, most of them in muslim countries. in turkey, which recently received another billion from the european union, this practice is common. in one third of marriages, there is a minor girl. some of them are only eight or nine years old. because of the open borders, we are also seeing the phenomenon of forced marriages increasingly in the european union. here too, the rights of girls are being trampled on. it is of course useless to sign all sorts of treaties and to set up initiatives if the structural problem of islam and its importation is ignored. the idea of the committee on women's rights of providing financial support to the families of these girls is therefore simply ridiculous. in this way the european union only contributes to the dowry if these girls are married off to an uncle or a cousin. of course, throwing a bag of money at the problem will not make it go away. the european union should not give money but close its borders. because these are practices we do not want here and we must not tolerate them here.
in writing. ‒ i do not think it is appropriate to put european logos on products from the school milk and school fruit programme. this form of propaganda is outrageous symbolism on the backs of children. i also think that the school milk scheme can be abolished altogether. milk is not by definition as healthy as we might think. recent scientific research from sweden confirms this. for example, drinking milk increases the risk of bone fractures. several members of parliament spoke of the increase in cases of lactose intolerance; this is becoming more common in young people. the call for 'combating the decline in milk consumption among adolescents', as this resolution does, is therefore problematic for public health. but it is also for nature, for the climate and for the animals, who are locked up en masse in ever-expanding mega-cages. instead of investing so heavily in dairy in schools, we could better use the school milk budget to spend more on school fruits and vegetables. by doing this, we're reducing the climate impact of intensive livestock farming and giving children healthier food choices. for all these reasons, i have voted against this resolution.
first of all, i would like to say that i fully support the rapporteur's proposal, because the russian boycott has hit european agricultural exports hard and this problem is still being discussed. the export of dutch products to russia has decreased by more than 30% this year. the eu's financial support has therefore been of great importance for many family farms, as well as for the related sectors, over the past year. because it's hard enough to keep your head above water. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the pig sector has been hit very hard by the boycott, especially in the netherlands. the crisis funds should benefit all sectors and there should be clarity on how to use them. the smaller sectors often have a hard time with this. i also call for the continued use of all available resources from the crisis fund in the future. we all know that the unused funds go back to the arable and dairy farmers. there's nothing wrong with that, but they need the money now. and then i ask the commissioner - as i have done in committee - to give a reprieve and to move the deadline from june to 7 august. it is also possible to look at the national envelopes and help the sectors which are still in crisis. the season is still in full swing. if you look at the prices, especially for tomatoes, this will certainly be of use. and finally, one point is important. we are in favour of a europe with fewer rules. i have always noticed that our farmers and gardeners do not know how to apply these rules in difficult times. yet, that is often what keeps a family farm afloat.
i have 40 pages of text here on the equality of men and women: 40 pages of criticism of the member states on, among other things, the distribution of household duties, maternity leave, pensions, wages, childcare, the introduction of women's quotas for supervisory boards and even for parliaments. what the hell is this parliament getting involved in? this debate should be held in national parliaments. and 40 pages of text and not a word in it about islam, that ideology with medieval views on the position of men and women. because according to islam, the testimony of a man is equal to that of two women, and a man may marry more than one woman and a woman only one man, and the woman does not inherit the same as a man in her position. this is an ideology that is gaining ground in the eu and a gender equality commission that forgets to mention this in a report on equality between men and women is really not worth a pinch of salt. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. i have been a member of this parliament for almost a year now. all those reports on equality between men and women that have come out so far, both this report and reports on genital mutilation or forced marriages: firstly, these are all areas which should be discussed in national parliaments and not here. i'm critical of that. this is a clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity. my second point: if you are so much in favour of equality between men and women, why do the commission and parliament fail to mention the role of women and the position of women in islam in all these reports? then why leave it behind?
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to compliment gabrielius landsbergis, who has made a resolution which combined all the credible forces in this parliament. so thank you for doing so, mr landsbergis. the basis will be the return of international law by russia: that is, of course, that crimea should be given back to ukraine and those who signed the budapest memorandum should be helping in this and should not be absent. secondly, russia should stop its involvement in eastern ukraine and adhere to the minsk agreement – and only facts on the ground can change our position towards russia. it is a two-track approach: it means being hard on putin but willing to cooperate with russian civil society, because many russians want peace as well. it will take a lot of time. in this parliament we always want things to happen overnight, but putin has a long-term strategy of crippling russia’s neighbours. so also to return putin, or a successor, to international law will take time, and we have to be tough. we should not give in – let time do its work. there are no speedy resolutions, no business as usual. to conclude, there is that blacklist. but i think it is a list of honour. it is an honour to be on a list with so many colleagues who are pro-ukrainian but who also love the russian people and want to get russia back on track. so again, to be on that list is an honour and a pleasure. we will not change anything. putin has to change. that’s it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, this is of course possible. we will invite people, students, people of goodwill – they are welcome – and normally people of goodwill who are on this list also want to go to russia to speak to their counterparts. that is goodwill, but it seems that goodwill is not much appreciated in moscow, unfortunately.
as rapporteur for this house on eu-china relations, i have recently been dealing in depth with russia-china relations and also the implications for the eu-russia relationship. mrs mogherini, our high representative, has recently been to beijing and i wanted to ask the commissioner to put a couple of questions to her. i'm sorry she's not here, too. there is a huge, even analysts say unprecedented, deepening of relations between moscow and beijing. what impact does this have on eu-russia relations, especially in this crisis situation? there is much talk of china's constructive contribution to the world stage. i would like to ask the high representative what constructive input china has made to de-escalation in ukraine. what constructive contribution has china made to pacifying this terrible situation?
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, after thanking the two rapporteurs, i would like to broaden the scope of this debate towards the general debate on climate change, and the headlines in today’s newspapers. in quoting the newspapers i would like to praise chancellor merkel for her leadership not only at the g7 but also on the energy transition in germany. at the g7 in particular, however, i think what she did in the last couple of days showed leadership. we heard extremely strong language coming out of the g7 meeting this week. but these are words, words and more words – and the words are not new, because in 2007 the g7 embraced the target of not exceeding two degrees centigrade, and in 2008, at the climate conference in cancún, the same was done. so words are important, but even more important is how they are interpreted, and the deeds that follow. talking about the interpretation of words, let me quote the canadian prime minister, stephen harper, speaking after the g7 meeting. he said: ‘we should not fool ourselves: nobody is going to start to shut down their industries.’ i guess that is the whole point. if we want to avoid the closure of industries, we need extremely ambitious policy. we need new technology, we need alternatives for current industries. only in that way, via very ambitious policy, can we avoid the future closure of our industries. turning to the eu and to the commissioner, it is extremely important that the commission should come forward with its revision of the emissions trading scheme (ets) proposal before the summer, because that will be crucial in terms of our own road to paris.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the two rapporteurs, mr la via and ms gardini, for their work. to be honest, i think that these votes will not be the tightest we will see tomorrow. there is another issue on the agenda, so i would like to broaden the scope a bit, not only because of what we have seen at the g7 but also because, as we speak, there are negotiations ongoing in bonn. what is striking is that everyone is brilliant with words. we are all willing to have global decarbonisation at the end of the century. we are reducing our emissions by 2050 – with a total shift in our energy system. so it all sounds great, and indeed we have to thank chancellor merkel for getting some of those words in, but at the same time we know that climate change will not stop because of words. it will stop only because of action, and i have some questions in that regard – mainly to the commissioner, because i foresee some problems, including with the commission’s input. for example, at this moment in bonn, india is asking whether the eu wants to step up its ambition level before 2020, which is one of the negotiation tracks. the eu can do that very easily, for example by elimination of the huge surplus of allowances. but the eu is refusing to do it, and that is, of course, greatly annoying to india, which will be an important country in paris. so what is the eu going to do to help a country like india? because another issue where india is having a problem is the global phase-out of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs). is the eu going to propose, as part of the montreal protocol, a global phase-out there, or are we only going for words? that is something else i would like to know from the commission. on the question of the transformation of the energy sector, i do not see why the commission is, at the same time, going to north africa and doing a lot of deals on gas – giving us a huge lock-in to gas – whereas we are talking about decarbonisation for the longer term. so, stop this gas lobby too! i would like to hear some comments on that.
the g7 has decided to spend 90 billion euros to combat the alleged global warming, promising that it will not exceed 2°c compared to 1990. it takes a lot of guts to call these kinds of hard numbers. you may wonder how they came up with these numbers and whether this amount and this promise are well founded. after all, this is a subject that we now know fiction and reality intertwine. the question is whether the earth is warming, and what is causing it, and it is entirely uncertain what measures might help. a rather shaky basis for drawing 90 billion euros. if you're so damn tough to call hard numbers, then have the balls to tell me who's gonna bring them up. and it is the taxpayer, the hardworking middle class in the netherlands and elsewhere, who will see their energy bill rise. that's a fairly accurate calculation. what is not exactly calculable is how much of that 90 billion will end up in the pockets of al gore's corporations.
apparently, frogs do not stay in a bowl of hot water when it is warming by a few degrees. they jump out and they save their sorry asses. thank god, that's very wise. we're dumber than those frogs. because we're gonna be stuck in that hot water tank. it's always a little bit higher. each time, the danger to our own lives and to the life of our planet grows a little bigger. the first climate refugees have already been identified. and yet we're still hanging around. there's still a meeting to be held. there are a few other lobby groups we need to talk to. there's another scientific report of a hidden soul that we need to wait for. you may know the beautiful artwork by the spanish artist isaac cordal, called "politicians discussing global warming". we see about 30 politicians standing shoulder-deep in water, talking, talking, talking. we can't afford that luxury. we've been waiting for two years and we can't wait any longer. we need to get out of that jail and get to work. let us set a good example, let us take the lead up to the climate conference in paris and ratify the doha report today.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report. it is good that we started at 3 o’clock with the climate debate and are now having an energy security debate. maybe we could have merged those two discussions because, very clearly, energy security and climate protection can – and should – go hand in hand. therefore, if one really takes this seriously, it is a clear agenda for energy efficiency – the fastest, cheapest way of reducing our dependence on energy – and renewables. none of the other options have those advantages. maybe there is still someone asking about nuclear energy; well, i would say, go to finland or hungary where they are building nuclear – or want to build nuclear – and are now deeply dependent on russian technology and russian uranium. so that is no longer any help in terms of energy security. i have one question for the commissioner, to end once and for all the gossip: will you now make very clear that the eu will never ever again allow public money to go into nuclear? it would be very helpful in this debate if we closed that circus as well.
thank you for the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs. europe is torn between a national energy mix, a desired climate policy and a heavy reliance on external suppliers of fossil fuels, often from countries with dubious regimes. this field of tension makes energy in europe expensive, polluting and also unsafe. now that we have set out the ambitions for a green, cheap and secure energy supply, the time has come for action to shed the patchwork of national and private interests and to arrive at a common interest. that starts with a decent price for pollution. oil giants like statoil and bp are now demanding the same. that starts with good access to everyone's markets. in short, it begins and can only begin with a europe and a european commission that takes the lead and has the courage to do so. to continue on the same path is to finance oligarchs and oil sheiks. let us choose the european approach and european investment to achieve a secure, sustainable and also cheap energy.
when i first came across the term smart borders package, i actually had to laugh. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. our internal borders were abandoned in 1995, and the external borders we have today are as leaky as a basket thanks to the frontex shuttle service. the eu has no borders at all. smart borders in the eyes of the european union are primarily weak borders. millions of illegal immigrants are already roaming the european union and hundreds of thousands are ready to come this way. people who travel thousands of kilometres to enter the eu will not be stopped by a new electronic system. we'll need boats to send them back. my party, the freedom party, has no need for 791 million pounds of baked air. let's just re-establish our old boundaries. that would be really smart.
- a writer. i am glad that we can have this discussion with the commission today, and in a businesslike manner. i have no need to attack either the person of dg olaf or the committee on budgetary control. but the fact is that the supervisor has included a number of specific criticisms in his annual report and that olaf's replies do not allay the concerns of many colleagues and myself. for example, opening cases must be done carefully. you don't start an official investigation until there's a sufficiently serious suspicion of fraud. olaf points out that the new rules were not yet in force at that time. however, the supervisor does not refer to the new olaf regulation but to the case law of the court of justice. olaf admits that this case law was not followed, and that is serious. it is only an example, the real discussion between the supervisor and olaf is, in my view, mainly about how to monitor when you have no, or at least too little, insight into individual cases. of course, dg olaf is right to say that the privacy of suspects must be guaranteed, but olaf can still ensure that the information on selection criteria and on prioritisation is submitted to the supervisor with sufficient supporting evidence. the institutions have been wrangling over this for years now and i think that the european commissioner has a very clear task to perform. it seems that more specific guidance on the provision of information to the supervisor is needed to break the deadlock. finally, it is striking that olaf wants to keep a lot of cases under wraps. the proposal is to place a controller on procedural guarantees within olaf. but it certainly applies to the supervisor as well. it depends on the budget and the information from olaf. the european commissioner must take this into account. how can the supervisor become truly independent of the organization he is supervising? it is in everyone's interest that the relationship between the supervisor and olaf should improve rapidly. these organs are clearly not coming out on their own. i therefore hope that the commissioner will take up the matter quickly and that is why we are asking for a concrete action plan in the resolution. i trust that the commission will give us a commitment to come up with such a plan soon. we owe it to the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ unlike my ecr colleagues, i did support the saudargas report today. it has strong paragraphs about the transition to a low-carbon energy mix. that is the direction we must take and that is where we must also focus our innovation. at the same time, there is still room for fossil fuels in the transition period, so that energy security and stability are not compromised. i do not consider the use of shale gas as a safe option at this time because of the environmental risks. let us instead devote our energies to the further development of truly renewable sources of energy.
in writing. ‒ cu-sgp votes in favour of the joint resolution. the reason for this is that olaf must operate independently and carry out its tasks in accordance with the regulation. the monitoring of these by the monitoring committee may not be functioning sufficiently at present. as olaf is affiliated to the european commission, it is of great importance to ensure that olaf can carry out its work with the appropriate degree of independence from the eu institutions. however, the monitoring committee cannot establish this due to insufficient access to information. the findings of the monitoring committee, as presented in its annual report, are far from reassuring. there are even differences of opinion about the facts: is the length of the case due to the new calculation method or not? and did the assessment of the opening of cases proceed in accordance with the regulation or not? such a difference of opinion on the facts characterises the working relationship between olaf and the supervisory committee. the differences of opinion also relate to the interpretation of the regulation as regards the role of the monitoring committee. it is therefore appropriate to clarify that role in order to ensure effective independence of olaf.
let's look at one bright spot. who would have thought that so many people would be interested in a debate on burundi? and i like that. two weeks ago, we were ready to leave for burundi to observe the elections with our chief observer, david martin. it didn't look great, but it did look reasonable. there were some challenges, but -- and that turned around in a day or two -- the moment the president asked for his third term, the violence began to escalate. then the coup d'état happened, and now we're here. the idea that we could see parliamentary elections on 29 june seems to me to be an idea that we can just sweep off the table. we shall not be able to see that, because i expect a very violent election day. you can't legitimize that, and you can't prevent it with a little surveillance mission. so we're facing a huge crisis, with 100,000 refugees, with a youth militia putting crosses on the doors of people who would not be loyal to the regime, and the word ax-day. the question is what can we do there? but the question is also what we have not seen in the few years before this, that it would now so rapidly get out of hand. i feel sad. i think we should stay involved. but i don't think we're going to be watching the election.
mr president, it is good that we are having this debate. earlier on, ukip tried to create the atmosphere of a football stadium here, including hooligans. today’s debate is actually fairly modest. we are merely admonishing fifa here, saying: ‘now, now boys’ – because it is mostly boys – ‘keep your hands out of the cookie jar’. ethical codes and admonitions may be necessary, but they are not enough. the council here expressed surprise at the scale of the corruption, but i think most people in this world were not surprised. it was happening right under our noses, but we have to ask ourselves: why did the us have to come in and clean up our mess? what has europe done? what have the member states done? what about the commission’s famous anti-corruption strategy? why has that not been used? commissioner, you rightly talked about the application of the competition rules to international sports federations. there is a complaint against the international speed skating federation which has been sitting on the commission’s desk for a year now. so i hope that you are going to live up to what you said earlier and give them a response within the next two weeks.
we're here tonight to discuss corruption at fifa. but we also have a person in this house who is demonstrably corrupt and against whom no action has been taken. i am talking about mr bidegain, who, during an undercover operation by the sunday times, was only too happy to accept bribes from journalists posing as lobbyists. in return, he would table amendments. this gentleman should have left the field immediately, but he was able to sit still and that shows once again how hypocritical and hypocritical this parliament is. hypocrisy, because we are willing to talk about corruption within fifa, but parliament is not in a position to give a red card to one of its own members. but it gets even crazier, because last year this parliament gave this corrupt gentleman a prize: mep of the year! how do you make it up? this is political match-fixing that fifa can suck a little bit of.
in 1988, the netherlands became european champion in germany. i was four years old at the time, and i wouldn't really remember that at all. but it still seems like yesterday and i was there. that's the beauty of football. it brings joy to billions of people, not just in europe, but all over the world. it connects people, it makes people brothers. such a sport, football, deserves to be represented by a transparent, democratic and well-governed football association. the commissioner has indicated that fifa does not meet these criteria at all. so there is a lot to be done and the recent developments and the resignation of blatter also provide a unique opportunity to finally clean up the mess. several colleagues have already said: we cannot leave this to the americans and the swiss alone, europe must also show ambition. i think that both the council and the commission are still a little cautious on this point. i'd expect more from that. we should not have to think again about the role of the european union in this case. we must act and i have two specific proposals. commissioner, you yourself have said that fifa is no longer credible as the international representative of football. as a parliament we call tomorrow for the appointment of an interim president. would it not be wise for the european union to suspend its official contacts with fifa until reforms are made, until there is an interim president or a new director? the second proposal, which has already been mentioned by a number of colleagues: i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it.
mr president, the azerbaijani authorities are eager to host high-level, high-visibility international events. they bring status, visitors and media attention. but the limelight of the european games cannot and will not overshadow the very troubling human rights situation in azerbaijan, where an unprecedented number of people are imprisoned. opposition leaders, journalists, human rights defenders – and really anyone who is critical – risk intimidation and imprisonment, and some of the brightest minds have now fled the country. it is not appropriate to have eu officials participating in ceremonies starting in a couple of days, so long as political prisoners are not released. after all, the label ‘european’ should mean something. when rights are respected, we can build a much more powerful and meaningful partnership between the eu and azerbaijan. in the meantime we will not forget the political prisoners, and we urge the azerbaijani authorities to release them as soon as possible and to allow human rights ngos, such as amnesty international, access to the country.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, we are all united in our indignation and condemnation of the violence this girl had to suffer – but that is not good enough for the girl. it is nice that we are all angry but what she needs is the choice to terminate this pregnancy. this is a 10-year-old girl! imagine if it were your daughter, or your granddaughter. she should be playing with her friends. instead she is forced to carry the child of her rapist, and that means that those who deny her a choice continue the violence against her. the ppe/ecr resolution talks about dignity. where is the dignity in forcing a little 10-year-old girl and so many other girls around the world – like the little victims of boko haram for example, more than 200 of which are also pregnant and also have no choice? where is the dignity in that? where is the dignity of forcing this little body to carry the baby of her rapist? i hope everybody is going to vote for our resolution and give this girl a choice. (some applause)
madam president, i am sorry but i feel that we did not get an answer from the council. i am glad that the council is committed to human rights, but we would like to know what the council presidency is going to do in this particular case. are you going to intervene on behalf of the girl? you talk a lot about human rights: that is fine, and i am convinced that you are committed. what is the council presidency going to do? are you going to approach the paraguayan authorities and intervene on behalf of this girl and try to make sure that she gets a choice to get a life?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy. the committee on regional policy strongly supports this new fund. we have already made available for this period 460 billion euro in the renewed regional funds, the so-called european structural and investment funds, with the co-financing of the member states. now, if you factor in a one-in-four multiplier, we have a real investment amount of about 1.5 trillion euros. with the addition of the efsi fund of some eur 315 billion for high risk capital, we have a wonderful package. europe is lacking in high-risk investments. our companies, our start-ups, the pilot projects in new technology, in smart industry have a real need for risk capital. the fund will fill this gap. let us now follow up the implementation with each other, together with the rapporteurs, to see whether we are actually achieving this synergy in terms of investment and jobs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all i too would like to thank all those working on this file, but especially the co-rapporteurs, who have made sure that we as a parliament put up a very good fight on this one. i also want to thank the commissioners, who it was indeed interesting to spend the nights with: something i never expected to endeavour that early on. nevertheless, after these thanks, and where it is also very clear that investments are needed and that there is finally room now for an investment programme and not only an austerity programme – which is something, indeed, that parliament can compliment itself on – we need to be honest: this is not the investment programme yet. this is just the start of a beginning. we have just been discussing the sum of eur 8 billion. of course, we know that in the projections and with all kinds of leverage factors it will come in the end to eur 300 billion. let us see whether we achieve that. but in the end we have been discussing only eur 8 billion, and it is also eur 8 billion we took away from the existing eu budget, an existing well-functioning eu budget. and why those budget lines? because they are for the eu; because the member states did not want to touch any of their own budget lines. we know that, and let us be honest about that: we cannot sell this as ‘the’ start, as ‘the revolution’ of europe. nevertheless – and of course, given these circumstances, we had a huge discussion in the group – from a green perspective, we do see a very clear direction for sustainability, for jobs, and that is what is needed. that is also what we will hold the commission and the eib – i see the eib there at the back as well – accountable for: that these projects will really deliver change and not business as usual. we think we have enough in place so that the greens can support this programme, but on the scoreboard, for example, work needs to be done. this is the beginning. let us really make this a successful programme where we can say this was the start of a new europe instead of business as usual.
i think that with the european fund for strategic investments we have created a beautiful baby in the european firmament, but after a difficult birth! the question is also whether this baby will grow into a full-fledged and mature youth. we'll see about that. as the epp transport coordinator, i have suffered a great deal from the sef money that the european commission has taken from my fund. i had an extra 2.8 billion in grants and i'm losing that to the european fund for strategic investments. i think that in itself is fine, but to speak to mrs van brempt: i'll get my money back at the end of this operation. and whether i get that money back in loans or in grants or in roads, waterways, railways or airports, that in itself doesn't matter to me that much. we have a problem in transport, however, where road and air transport are more capital intensive than rail and inland waterway transport, and i hope that the european commission will pay attention to this in the coming years. the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework provides us with a good opportunity to look back with you.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, it is no secret of course that this report has taken quite a long time to be ready for plenary, and given the differences between political groups that is no surprise. for the epp, credible economic governance is first and foremost also implementing what you have agreed to do. in our view our economic governance framework is not the cause of the economic difficulties that europe finds itself in, it is an instrument for addressing imbalances within member states early on and making sure that we do not run up unsustainable debts. is this framework then perfect? surely not. procedures can be streamlined, as has been said by the commissioner; they can be better timed. we clearly need a more transparent democratic debate about the key points of our economic policy agenda and we need increased ownership and involvement by national parliaments. for the longer term everyone can see that our monetary union is not perfect or complete, but for steps to be taken to deepen our monetary union we first need to make sure that the current system actually works. in our view the economic governance framework needs to watch over – do i dare say it as a christian democrat? – the holy trinity of responsible public finances, structural reforms to improve competitiveness, and investments that can create growth and jobs – investments that are attracted by stability and competitiveness, not by running up debt. this will help make our economy stronger, making the eurozone as a whole stronger and more convergent. then, and only then, can we take the next step that we should take in deepening emu. it is a question of doing things in the right order, and this order i also see reflected in the five presidents’ report. i am glad that in the end we found some groups taking the responsibility, overcoming their differences and actually coming up with a report that gives us the element for the future agenda in the short and in the long term. and now let us get to work.
we are meeting today to discuss a very important issue, namely how the european parliament sees the future of the eurozone and the rules we have agreed to make it economically and fiscally sound again. unfortunately, the report on these agreements is a bit of a holes punch. it calls for more flexibility for the commission in applying budgetary agreements, when we have just seen how catastrophic loose enforcement of rules can be. the lesson should have been that rules should be applied rigorously and scrupulously to all countries, not that we should create more space for political cow-trading. instead of undermining the rules, parliament should instead stand up for a eurozone in which all countries stick to the agreements and all countries take measures to strengthen their economies. if countries do not, they will find themselves. that is why we believe that european money should only be available to countries that respect budgetary rules, that implement economic reforms and that actually implement the annual country-specific recommendations. that would really help the eurozone move forward. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. of course i am aware of the very difficult situation of many people in greece. i regret that very much. but that does not change the fact that we believe that the rules must be enforced and that it is up to the greek governments themselves to make the right choices and to make cuts in other areas than where they may be doing so now. the choice of how to cut back is really up to the greeks themselves. they must simply, like other countries which have also had to make difficult choices, stick to the agreement, because greece is not the only country where sacrifices have been made. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. the rules must certainly be applied in all cases. the netherlands has also made use of the flexibility provided for in the stability and growth pact. after that, we followed the rules. so there is enough flexibility in the stability and growth pact and we see no reason to add more flexibility to it now. because again, there's already a very goodwill attitude towards countries, and countries are given time to make the adjustments at the right pace.
let me not begin with mrs berès' report, but with the report of the five presidents, because that report reads like an admission of guilt, for the good reader. the fact is that rules do not yet add up to policy, certainly not to policy which allows for economic stabilization and the fight against unemployment, nor to policy which is carried out democratically. instead of bringing member states together, the approach to the euro crisis has led to divergence between and within countries, and finally we are daring to admit that and there is movement. the present report by mrs berès and the others shows more than movement. it also gives direction and it also discusses the steps that need to be taken to strengthen the architecture of the euro area. the idea that fiscal policy is important for stabilisation and convergence, and therefore also for combating unemployment, is central. i would like to make one final comment. the countries have transferred sovereignty, but with the introduction of the euro, with a stronger democratic eurozone, sovereignty is being regained, not for one country in isolation but for all of us.
we are very pleased with the commission's action plan to tackle tax avoidance. the commission proposes a variety of instruments, and we believe that the most important instrument is transparency. transparency on rulings, transparency on where multinationals pay what taxes. we also believe that the role of tax authorities and governments is not the only one at stake, but that it is also the role of the multinationals themselves. when we have that transparency, then of course tax policy will also play a bigger role in the boardroom. the ethics in the boardroom are of the utmost importance. i think we are at the same level in the tax debate as we were in the boardrooms 15 years ago in the environmental debate. not everything that is legal is good. when there is more transparency, consumers can also choose with their feet, they can determine why they want to buy from a particular company or not. that is why i think we must use transparency in every possible way as an important weapon against tax evasion.
it is good that the european commission is serious about tackling tax evasion and this grievous injustice. only a common approach can prevent multinationals from playing off countries. a european basis for corporate taxation is therefore necessary. but the commission must realise that the action plan is welcome but still far from sufficient. let me confine myself to three points. firstly, the commission is doing half the work by omitting the consolidation of profits and losses. if we want to ensure that companies pay tax where they make a profit, we must not let this possibility slip away. secondly, the commission is doing half its job in tackling tax havens. yes, the blacklist of tax havens is welcome, but the real question is how we should deal with these tax havens. the netherlands, my country, is a transit port for untaxed profits. i would therefore strongly urge that a withholding tax on flows to these tax havens be made possible on the basis of european directives. thirdly, the european union must also support the forthcoming agreements in the oecd context by implementing them swiftly. the action plan does not say much about that. but it's important to close the gaps that are already there. finally, half a job does not mean half a problem. the practice of tax evasion teaches that every loophole will be searched. in short, there is still a lot of work to be done by this commission and by this parliament.
mr president, there have just been comments from various quarters about your remarkable role in the 'yes' campaign. i can imagine that when we hold a debate on the council's outcome and on greece next wednesday, we will be holding not just a few others but also you in this chamber to account. you have played a prominent role in the yes campaign and i think it is fair that you should be accountable to this house for that. you just drew the comparison with hungary. i don't think it's going to go all the way up. because when it comes to hungary, this house has made a clear majority decision many times. but this house has not yet had a chance to take a position on your intensive involvement in the yes campaign. you have therefore failed to answer that question in this house. i therefore propose that in this debate on wednesday we also give you the opportunity to explain what you have done in the 'yes' campaign and that we have the opportunity to ask you about it.
mr president, after working in a very good spirit on a report about how new technologies impact on human rights globally, it appears there is a need for a little more time to work out some unclear areas or differences between the groups. so, on the basis of rule 152(1), i would like to ask for postponement until september.
mr president, when mr juncker first coined the term ‘capital markets union’, i had some doubts. was this a solution to the remaining obstacles to investments in smes in europe, or was it a way of reintroducing the old problems under a new flag? i think the answer very much depends on the way we approach the capital markets union. two key principles have to be at the heart of the capital markets union: it has to be safe, and it has to serve the real economy. enhancing the safety and the stability of the financial sector still requires a number of measures. on securitisation, the resolution strikes a balance – the right balance. the commission must show how shifting risks and freeing up capital leads to lending to smes. at the same time, high-quality securitisation requires an appropriate allocation of property rights and risks and requires powerful monitoring. there are problems with security-financing transactions which remain unaddressed: it is pro-cyclical in nature and it has the potential to increase systemic risk, and of course we still have to complete the banking union. we still do not have a europe-wide deposit guarantee. as regards serving the real economy, the potential of banking beyond banks is largely untapped in the eu, so there is a possibility for europe to diversify in financial instruments, and i think that is a good thing. it opens doors for smes and, with more risk-bearing capital, more smes can grow and develop in europe, contributing to the european economy as a whole. but it cannot be restricted to regulation in the financial sector. if we want to have more risk-bearing capital, we also have to look at the tax regime and at debt-equity buyers, and the commission has thus far been quiet on this subject. to conclude, the resolution rightly asserts that the capital markets union has to be fully compatible with past regulatory achievements. so yes, the capital markets union can offer an opportunity for a safer, service-oriented financial sector. this resolution offers a welcome starting point and strikes the right balance, a balance between the power of diversification and the necessity for proper regulation. this is the balance we have to protect throughout this project.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, let me start by thanking our rapporteur sirpa pietikäinen, and the two commissioners for their work and opening statements. as we are discussing the circular economy here, china is at the same time constructing artificial islands in the south china sea. for what reason? for one single reason: to secure resources. the single pillar of chinese foreign policy is to secure resources for its large population. and what about the eu? what are we doing in our external policy? not a lot. it is close to nothing, although we are the most vulnerable region in the world where resources are concerned. we provide only 30% of the resources that we use for ourselves, so in external policy, resource efficiency is absolutely absent. but of course – and this is the main focus of today’s debate – resource efficiency also has a very strong internal dimension: the efficient use of resources in europe itself. on this matter, i have to go back five years in time to 2010, when then commissioner potočnik presented his roadmap for a resource-efficient europe. i must say it was a brilliant document and a very strong analysis, with a roadmap on what europe should do to become resource efficient. there was a lot of legislation. it was not only about the environment but was maybe more about the economy. it talked about recycling, about better design, about creating economies of scale for the reuse of materials, the recovery of precious minerals like phosphates, and working on alternatives for our chemical industry through biomass. all that was in this brilliant document, and my question to the commission is: what will be the difference with the action plan that will be part of the circular economy package? is it just a delay of five years, or will it be a real improvement gained after five years? finally, let me thank the two vice-presidents for being here representing the commission. i hope that shows the importance of the topic in political terms. thank you, and i am very much looking forward to your proposal later this year.
we're here today to talk about an important subject. in the end, it is about the reuse of our raw materials, which will become scarce. we must think about how we will deal with our raw materials and our waste, because this is where the great opportunities and challenges lie for the coming years. we've come a long way in the recycling of our waste. the waste incineration plants are also recycling a lot, especially in the netherlands. incineration releases waste and valuable raw materials. it is suggested that incineration in particular is very unhealthy. but the technology used today is different and can also contribute to the circular economy, for example. the revenue model of reuse and recycling makes combustion in a good mix of very important. there is no point in phasing out too quickly if the rest of europe is not also enforcing the landfill ban properly. i want everyone to be able to come. in the netherlands, at least, garbage is not thrown in a pile. waste is separated before it is incinerated or recycled. a well-considered decision. billions have already been invested in waste management. if we change the frameworks, companies may be in trouble. and if valuable innovation is lost, we're going to fall behind. finally, another point. the exploitation of the circular economy between farmers is also essential for the agricultural sector. the recovery of scarce phosphate and other valuable raw materials from manure must be made possible in europe. so finally allow the use of mineral concentrate, include it in a fertiliser regulation and remove it from the waste legislation. only then can europe provide a credible picture of a truly circular economy for our farmers and our citizens.
the introduction of the milk quota in 1984 was a response to agricultural policy, which kept the price of milk artificially high. overproduction arose and the policy of buying-in and export subsidies became far too expensive. however, the policy did not dare to drastically adjust the price support and therefore switched to volume control. agricultural policy has become more market-oriented. the price of milk has been driven by supply and demand for the last seven years. from then on, brussels' control of volume was unnecessary. it is good that the milk quota has been abolished. dairy farmers on the other side of the world told me that the european milk quota was the best thing that had ever happened to them. the milk price is currently under pressure due to an unfortunate combination of circumstances: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the milk quotas. but to call it a milk crisis is an exaggeration. the 2013-2014 period was a record year for dairy farming and the long-term prospects for the dairy market are bright. i cannot support the call for a new system of volume control or an increase in intervention prices. we'll lose our connection to the world market. it makes us less competitive. in addition, direct payments will have to be reduced, which i cannot explain to other agricultural sectors. the common agricultural policy already has instruments to support farmers. we must not make it too complicated and give farmers the space to compete on the world market.
president. - thank you for your report. in the netherlands the price of milk is currently 30 cents a kilo. the real cost of the family farm is at least 40 cents a kilo of milk. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk market is not affected by the crisis. the sector is under pressure. last year i warned of the possible risks that the end of the milk quota could bring to our family and family businesses. as the dairy sector faces an uncertain future, we need to look at what instruments we can use if the current situation continues. this is also true of other sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk sector is not undermined by the introduction of the single market. dairy farming plays an indispensable role in our countryside, food security, economy, tourism and agricultural nature management in the netherlands and in europe. this may cost money, but we must be careful not to take hasty measures that disrupt the market. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended) ) the european commission is finally opening up the possibility of closing the loop, of which the innovative mineral concentrate is an indispensable part. this is essential for the maintenance of the vital agricultural sector in the netherlands and in europe, especially for dairy farming, because the netherlands has the largest share of the cost of the slaughter of animals. commissioner, you will be able to make your move here at no cost.
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. i would like to thank first of all the rapporteur, bernd lange, and also the shadow rapporteur for the epp, mrs quisthoudt, for their work. in the transport committee, isds was also a very big problem, but i hope that we can solve that with the new compromise amendment. the transport sector is very important in ttip. europe has great interests in the maritime sector, and i hope that the commissioner and her staff can break open the maritime sector in the usa. we're not trying to repeal the jones act. we're trying to amend it. take it down a notch. i also call attention to the buy american act - everyone knows that subject, i will not go into that - and to the safety procedures in the automobile industry. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to ask you a question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, there is not a member in this house who did not contribute to this resolution on ttip, informed by the daily discussions with citizens, civil society organisations, smes and companies. their many wishes, but also concerns, are reflected in this intensive stocktaking. is it a perfect text for our group? no, but it is important that this house sends a strong message to the negotiators, and cooperation requires some compromise. i would like to remind our socialist and democrat friends of that as well. the text we have agreed maps out what we believe a good ttip should look like. i am sure it is not the last debate we will have on ttip and the state of play of the negotiations, which will probably last years more. we call on you, commissioner, to get clear results from the us side, as results are the best way to demystify and clarify, while not, of course, replacing transparency initiatives, which we also encourage you to take more of. concretely, we need market access for eu companies in the us, government procurement at all levels, and an end to protectionist measures that seriously restrict the space for our businesses, notably in the transport sector. we need benefits for smes so they can more easily expand business across the atlantic. most growth in the global economy is foreseen as coming outside of europe. we are happy to see developing economies succeed, but we must avoid a race to the bottom and do not believe in development and growth at any cost without respect for people and the planet. our environmental, food safety, labour and other standards are cherished and cannot be lowered. we will also remind you of your commitments on public services. it is key that europe lead in strengthening rules-based trade globally. we need progress in finding a solution to the outdated isds mechanism which, frankly, has no fans left. i support your plans for an international court and hope the member states and other countries, including the us, can be convinced that this is the way forward. a lot of work remains to be done on the road to a good result from the negotiations. i hope we can all intensify our outreach and discussions to engage with stakeholders so that we have a well-informed and interactive debate.
madam president, i should like to address my fellow meps and remind them of whom they represent. it is not business europe or the american chamber of commerce, whose agenda is the basis for this agreement. it is not the lawyers, who are benefiting from an exploding number of isds cases. nor is it the companies, which will be writing and rewriting our democratic laws. instead, you represent the 2.3 million people who have signed the european citizens’ initiative to stop ttip. it is the 150 000 people who have contributed to the public consultation on isds, and who were 97% negative on the whole idea. it is the hundreds and thousands of people who are now writing letters and emails to you to stop ttip and isds. it is the people you were talking to when you were canvassing. it is the people who voted for you. you are a democratically-elected representative. vote no to ttip and no to isds.
ttip is more than a trade agreement. it is the creation of a single market between the eu and the us. the single market poses serious risks to workers and to our social system. within the eu we are still struggling with the social problems. we must therefore be vigilant to a new market adventure with a superpower like the united states. a negotiated outcome can count on our support if basic social rights are also recognised in the us, if it is clear that ttip will create jobs for us and what is being done for the workers affected, if our european standards on consumer protection and the environment are not undermined, if public services such as education and health care are excluded, and if there are no private isds tribunals for investors to sue countries. we need to be clear: no isds in the ttip. investors can rely on national public law just like anyone else. the international business community does not need its own legal system outside the democratic rule of law. we are also preventing claims from influencing states and the rules we establish democratically. only a resolution that says very clearly: "we don't need isds and we don't want it", can count on my support.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, as the commissioner may probably note with a smile on his face, parliament’s resolution opens by saying that we want to focus on the big themes – and then we need about 29 pages to explain what the big themes are. i very much welcome the aim of the commission, supported by the majority in this house, to cut red tape. i think that is always a good idea anywhere, but it should not become a goal in itself. quite frankly, cutting red tape – important as it may be – is not the answer to all the big challenges of today. it is not the answer to the refugee crisis. it is not the answer to the crisis in the eurozone. it is not the answer to the dismantling of the schengen area. it is not the answer to mr putin. so we need to cut red tape, but we need more than that. i think what we need to keep in mind is that what we are doing here today is creating the european union that future generations will be living in. it is not just about us and our little differences, or indeed the things that bind us, it is about future generations. i will make a first remark about better law-making. as far as i am concerned, that is much more about the process than it is about the outcome, because the outcome is a matter of political choice. in the process i think there is a lot that needs to be improved, and the commission can do a lot there too, for example by introducing a true culture of transparency and access to documents because, despite all the nice words, i find that the three institutions – and that includes the european parliament – still have a very conservative reflex when it comes to opening up and being transparent. a second point – it is a minor one and is not in the resolution, but i think i am speaking on behalf of all of us – would be getting true and serious responses to our written parliamentary questions, rather than the non-answers that we usually get. it also means responding to legislative proposals by the european parliament. i think that the commissioner himself has said that he intends to do this, because there is something odd in the fact that a citizens’ initiative requiring a million signatures obliges the commission to respond, but this parliament, elected by no less than 170 million voters who went to the ballot boxes last year, can be ignored. finally, i think the commission can – and should – do a lot better on review and evaluation. on the big themes, we are talking about improving the eurozone – and that is not just greece, that is eurozone governance – and we need to go much further than the five presidents’ proposals. the commission should stand shoulder to shoulder with the european parliament in avoiding the dismantling of the schengen area and free movement. finally, this house has called for a mechanism for the enforcement of article 2 fundamental rights and the rule of law. this house will elaborate proposals, and we hope that the commission will do the same.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his introduction. i think all of us in this room can agree on one point, namely that europe should indeed be big on big things and small on small things. but the debate, of course, is about what we call big and what we call small. that is a political debate and a political decision. let us not hide between impact assessments, scrutiny boards or whatever. this should be an open political debate on what we call big and what we call small and where we will put europe at the forefront. there is a lot of criticism about how europe works at the moment, but is that because there are many rules coming out of brussels or is it because of the situation in greece? is it because of the rising unemployment in europe? is it because of the rising inequalities in europe? i think it is the latter. that is the big thing for me. europe should become a europe that is addressing inequalities and moving towards a social europe and a sustainable europe. that is the core, the big thing and the big challenge for europe. i think we should always be united there. mr timmermans said that we should get rid of the myth that this commission is not being progressive and not being ambitious on legislation. well, i still have to say that we need to see some proof of that. one of the biggest moments when we are going to read that out is, of course, when you come forward with the so-called more ambitious proposal on the circular economy package. we will certainly watch closely to see whether that is indeed more ambitious. mr timmermans, you said in our group, ‘let me prove you wrong’, because you know we are sceptical. well, i am happy to be proved wrong, but we have to see it. the same goes for issues like migration, and also the commission’s first reallocation plans. these are good and we support them, but we all know that this is just the start of a big debate. the commission should also come forward here, for example by creating legal routes for labour migration, which is a very important part. the same on taxation. the taxation package until now has not been very ambitious. we should have far more on transparency and country-by-country reporting. it is the same when we are discussing emu, which needs to be more democratic and more social. we will challenge all these issues and have to look at them. in the end this needs to be done together, so let us indeed look forward to collaborating on the interinstitutional agreement – but let us do it on an equal footing. let us not hide behind bureaucratic impact assessments, and let us make it a political debate where all three institutions are at the same level.
luxleaks has shown what transparency can do. the once secret arrangements of the luxembourg tax authorities have unleashed a storm of indignation and brought the fight against tax evasion closer. the principle is that companies pay tax where they make profits. but if there is no information about it, then that principle is loose and empty. transparency and country-by-country reporting are therefore crucial to enforce that principle. if the principle is that wages should be fair - and i add that the top of the business community should set the example - then that principle is hollow and empty if there is no information about it. it is therefore important that the ratio between the top and the average employees is reported. i think transparency is still a work in progress. but i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for the steps that have been taken. transparency is a powerful weapon and the european parliament has shown that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all i would like to thank ivo belet for the great work he has been doing. we all know how difficult it is to get a compromise on ets. somehow this is always a fun debate in the plenary and all over the place and then, in the end, we usually do not get to a compromise. but this time you did manage to get to a compromise, and you should be applauded for that. thank you also for the great cooperation. we as greens can also support this compromise, so we will vote in favour because we do think it is an improvement on what we have. however, the work is only beginning, because we know now that we have a stability mechanism, but the biggest issues are still the huge surplus of allowances hanging above the market and what we are going to do in the long term on ets. these are the issues that we expect the commissioner to address in his proposal – and hopefully next week, because in the commission you have the same issues around ets. it always takes a bit longer than expected, but let us see what we get next week. just one question to commissioner cañete: we are reading news that you are already more or less changing one of the proposals that was such a success, which was that unallocated allowances would go directly into the reserve, but now we see that in your new proposal you are wanting to use 250 million of those allowances for a new entrance reserve, therefore already lowering the ambition for the 2030 target. i hope i have read that completely wrongly and that you will correct me, because otherwise we have to say that next week you will start tinkering with the issue as we felt it, which was an early start and surplus allowances into the reserves. i hope we can keep it that way.
the eu is a disaster magnet. it fails, whether it is the greek question or the immigrant problem, and in this case the ets. it never worked, it doesn't work now, and it never will. the laughing third is the airlines from china and the middle east. they laugh like idiots. they don't even have to compete. their best friend, the eu, does. because it makes airline tickets so expensive that passengers automatically switch to these airlines. the turks are laughing their heads off, and with all the money they get from the eu, they are building the biggest airport in the world, just to wipe amsterdam schiphol off the map. the most harmful co2 comes from the mouths of the big-mouthed brussels committees. if there is to be a carbon tax, it must be on the dangerous talk of these bureaucrats. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. all i'm saying is that everything that's being made up here has only one effect and that's destabilization. you can see that in the cooperation within the eu. you can see that in the migrants. you can see that from the greek question. everything the eu is doing here is destabilising and failing. it's only gonna get worse. this house should be aware of that for a moment.
i have great confidence in the rapporteur, mr fernandes, and i have great confidence in mrs georgieva. if you can bring the efsi dossier to a successful conclusion, the 2016 budget is simple. i cannot always follow the council's line. on the one hand, the council wants europe to do more and more. on the other hand, he's very reticent when it comes to paying. but we can also improve our own credibility. if new things have to happen, we must also be willing to scrap old things. we can be a little more strict about that. it is also remarkable that annual expenditure is always lower than budgeted expenditure. i therefore repeat my plea from last year: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to use the surplus to pay back the amounts due to the member states, for example, by using it to pay back arrears. finally, the use of margins. there are still a lot of margins in the european budget. we must make the budgetary framework more flexible. as the epp group's transport spokesman, i would naturally like to speak to the commissioner again about the relationship between the efsi and the cef. we'd like to get some cef money back. thank you very much.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. sure, of course. we must tackle terrorism, cybercrime and organised crime in a european and coordinated way. but you will see in this debate today that we may agree on the purpose, but not on the means. mass surveillance solutions have so far proved unsuccessful. this parliament has been asking for proof of the effectiveness of pnr and tftp for a very long time. so far, nothing of that has come into the house. in fact, it leads to loose-knit security services thinking it's okay to spy on neighbors for a third country. i understand, in the face of major disasters like we've seen in tunisia, paris or the london underground, that you want to take big action. major disasters call for major action, and it's here and now. but they also ask for the cool heart that says: "does it work? and prove that". because if we don't, we risk taking measures that don't work, but that do curtail our freedom. the greens are for old-fashioned detective work, not just looking for leads and profiling people, but looking for the real dangers. and we don't do that with mass surveillance. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to say two things. first of all: if you've got the evidence, i wonder why the rest of us are still waiting for it. i think that showing evidence to experts is quite different from simply showing it to meps who have to make a very difficult ethical assessment. i haven't seen them yet. secondly: we spend money and time on initiatives that we don't spend on the real investigation. may i give you a name? we knew the man. the jewish museum in brussels: we knew the man. detroit, we knew the boys. every time, it turns out to be people we know, but we didn't do anything.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. but nothing could be further from the truth. it's mostly a lot of barking and little wool. the commission and the resolution, on paper, call for a strong response to terrorism, but they conveniently forget to mention the source of terrorism, namely islam. this naivety and lack of any sense of reality is the greatest danger to security in the european union. how many more victims do we have to take? how many more beheadings, bombings, shootings in the name of the so-called "religion of peace"? as long as you run away from reality, the european union will not be any safer. as long as you continue to import hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants and terrorists, it's not going to get any safer. and as long as we're stuck here with a foreign leader who thinks islam belongs in europe, it's not gonna get any safer. you can present a hundred security agendas and resolutions in this way, but as long as you do not recognize that islam plays the leading role in practically all terrorist attacks, the security of our citizens is in danger. the time for looking the other way is truly over. stop the islamization of our continent. stop mass immigration, close the borders and protect the people of our countries.
thank you to the commission for the european security agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. i had hoped that we in parliament could have the same focus, but i regret to say that we have not succeeded in doing so. in article 2 of this resolution we are sending the commissioner out into the world to fight any perception of dishonesty in the eu's foreign policy, just as don quixote once tried to fight windmills. i had hoped that we as a parliament could have put a much greater focus on the safety of 500 million people. three priorities for you. a lot has been said about terrorism. i would like to talk about organized crime, particularly in border regions. our borders may have disappeared on paper, but criminal gangs still find them extremely useful in practice. human trafficking, drug trafficking, prostitution, motorcycle gangs are increasingly literally crossing borders. i would therefore like to call for better cooperation, better exchange of information between member states in the field of police and judicial work, and much more work on crossborder confiscation and freezing of assets. a third point: joint research teams are a great tool. they should be used much more often anyway. but a specific question to the commissioner and to the council: we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers get involved in this.
for the greens/efa group a study also cited in mrs schlein's report shows that tax rules in the netherlands - my country of origin - cost developing countries between 150 million and 550 million euros a year. we can be proud to be a major player in development aid in this world, but every penny that leaves africa because taxes are not paid where the work is done is actually a sin and we cannot make up for it by giving development aid. i was rapporteur for the report on anti-money laundering, new european legislation. we have called for and arranged for the establishment of a public register in which we can see who really owns a company, so that we can make sure that multinationals do not evade or avoid taxes. because society will have to put an end to that. we can talk a long time in addis ababa, but if we continue to allow multinationals to shop around looking for the place where they pay the least tax, then we can never get our development money to match the health, infrastructure and education in sub-saharan africa. so i ask the commissioner: fighting for good tax laws there.
greece cheated on its figures when it joined the eurozone, and on its budget deficits in 2010. now this trojan horse is trotting through the eurozone, to the horror and despair of many. reckless european banks began to finance the irresponsible lending behavior of the greeks. because those banks knew: if things go wrong, the ecb is our safety net. greece now has to put its books in order and reform its economy. but how? the country is already bankrupt, with a national debt of 180 percent of gross national product. since the dictates of the treaty of versailles, we know: you can't pick from a bald chicken. it took us the second world war to understand that, and, note bene, after that war germany was the one that got the most generous debt forgiveness ever. are we so stupid as to make that mistake again and go picking at a bald greek chicken? no, you won't! greece has no future except in the form of a partial debt cancellation and a currency of its own. i am also of the opinion, mr president, that you should not have interfered with the 'yes' campaign in greece.
despite all the enthusiasm in this house, this debate is very sad. i think it should be an eye opener - or i hope it is - for the greek prime minister to see that his biggest fans, apart from his own backbench, are on the extreme right of this house. the side that said from the beginning: we want to destroy this european cooperation. three quarters of this house, despite political differences, do not want the eu or the eurozone to fall apart. three-quarters of this house don't want a greek to leave. we did not walk away from the negotiating table and your best friend at this moment, however you portray him at home, is sitting there. (speaker points to president juncker) time and again the committee chairman tried to reach an agreement. unlike the s&d, which today apparently wrote a blank cheque, the epp does attach conditions to a potential agreement with your country. there are also 18 other democracies in the eurozone. they must be respected too. we want to make concrete proposals. i therefore regret that i have not heard the word 'competitiveness' in your report, because that is what it is about, even once. i do not think that these two conditions are too much to ask. the time for games is over. the time for game theory is over. it's time you laid your cards on the table and made it clear what you want. the reason i am so sad is that i take it from your behaviour today that you do not want a deal at all. poor greece, poor europe, who will have to bear the consequences.
mr president, like any sensible person i was shocked and appalled by the cowardly terrorist attack on tourists in tunisia. my sympathy goes to the victims and their families and loved ones. it reminds us that domestic and foreign policy cannot always be decoupled and that we live in a mutually-dependent world. but despite our grief at these horrible attacks, we must not forget – and work harder to ensure – that tunisia is, and remains, a success story of how transition from dictatorship can lead to an open society. tunisians who took to the street five years ago, asking for a more just and democratic society, voiced essential values as their aspirations. transition is never easy; but those calls by young people sick of the injustices, the abuse of power and corruption, and the lack of opportunities and freedoms must not – and will not – be forgotten. the next generation deserves to find in europe a reliable and committed partner in helping support further development, in building a free society, diverse and democratic, the complete opposite of the nihilistic and misguided dogma of political islam advanced through violence. i personally do not like to think in terms of support for tunisia. let us work with tunisians so they can build their own future with the eu as a partner. the announcements of negotiations on a trade agreement should fit into that picture and help create a freer society with opportunities for all tunisians, especially the young generation.
for the ecr group from my country, the netherlands, close contacts have been maintained with cuba for decades, especially in the area of the church. there is therefore a great deal of interest in the future of eu-cuba relations. from those circles, who are very well aware of the situation in cuba, i hear the following reaction: official contacts from the eu with the cuban authorities are wonderful, but there is also a need for contacts with the opposition, the democratic movement and human rights defenders. economic development is desperately needed in cuba. there are openings for that. let the eu wholeheartedly support private initiatives in cuba. but at the same time, as mr hahn said, beware of the (even flagrant) violation of human rights. at present, cuba has at least 71 political prisoners. it is a crying shame that so many people are in prison for crimes they have not yet committed, because of the danger that they might commit those crimes. there's even an official name and official legislation for it. i hope the eu will really press charges, because this is not possible for normal relations between the eu and cuba.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues. the poor people of yemen have suffered structurally from a lack of inclusive democratic governments, and the tensions and violence that that have resulted, for the past decades. thousands have been killed and many more injured in the latest eruption of violence alone that started in the spring of this year. a report that the saudi-led coalition is using cluster bombs should be investigated thoroughly by the united nations and must have serious consequences, if confirmed. independently-led investigations should also look at other crimes committed to assess whether these amount to crimes against humanity. the people of yemen deserve justice, and a de-escalation of violence is needed to restabilise the country. there should be more respect for human life, and the human suffering must end. we therefore call on all parties engaged in this conflict to stop the use of violence, because while people suffer, al-qaeda, so-called islamic state, and other terrorist organisations benefit and grow amidst the chaos in yemen. ongoing insecurity is further stifling humanitarian efforts, leading to historic and tremendous chaos and crisis. as we can see, a toxic downward spiral is unfolding. the terrorists are going as far as recruiting children for their activities and using them as soldiers, and i think that that is disgraceful. we must work through and ensure that there is dialogue and de-escalation. but there is a political solution, including a more constructive role by regional actors, which – as many colleagues have pointed out – are very much involved in the situation in yemen, leading to more and more violence. the eu should also reconsider its partnerships with some countries in the middle east in this context. foreign actors should stop the interventions, as i mentioned. they should stop adding fuel to the fire. we, as europe, must support any un efforts to lead in a dialogue that can lead to a peaceful and political solution to this terrible conflict. but the eu itself should do more and take a leadership position in ensuring that these un efforts succeed.
for the ecr group exactly one week ago, i was with some colleagues on the golan heights. what was happening there, a few miles away, before our eyes, was truly horrible. syrian villagers are being bombarded incessantly by jabhat al-nusra, hezbollah and then islamic state. that's awful! i have to tell you frankly that it is a feeling of shame to see the killing go on while the world community is passive. the un is present in southern lebanon and the golan heights, but it is powerless. it only says israel. i would like to pay tribute to the medical service of the israeli army. at night, to avoid being shot by snipers, it evacuates wounded from syrian villages - now almost two thousand - and provides life-threatening medical care. the israeli military often performs heroic deeds there. i want to have said that. this morning i read in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung an impressive and penetrating interview with the exiled bishop of mosul. he was talking about us, too. he was asked how he felt about us. i quote: "people in the west are fighting for the preservation of endangered species. how can they stand by and watch an entire people being driven out and killed? how can they watch a people slowly but surely disappear from the history of mankind? if a third of the syrian catholic church is scattered throughout the world, this actually means the downfall of this church. i ask, i pray to the west and the world powers for help. you must work to drive isis out of our country. today, these warriors are with us. tomorrow they will be with you". (end of quote) i'll add to this: they're already here, the syrian walkers! when are we gonna wake up?
i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr kukan, for a resolution which contains many valid points, including the much needed differentiation, the need for a more political and less technocratic approach to european neighbourhood policy and the centralization of european values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, without double standards. the most important thing is that this resolution reaffirms that eu policy must benefit the people of our neighbouring countries and not the political elite there. nor must it be motivated solely by self-interest, such as the deterrence of refugees. we demand reforms of the rule of law and guarantees of human rights for the simple reason that the people are better off in a just and well-governed country. for the countries with which we have signed association agreements, ukraine, georgia and moldova, this is even an obligation. these agreements go beyond trade. they also have an important political component. some politicians argue that the neighbourhood policy should be used only as a geopolitical instrument. they want to put a hand on the head of wrong regimes and look the other way when fundamental rights are violated. they are not so strict in demanding agreed reforms. the geopolitical goal of stability in a troubled region, fighting terrorism or reducing russian influence, in this view, sanctifies the means, namely turning a blind eye to abuses such as selective justice, nepotism or human rights violations. a credible neighbourhood policy requires a political vision that is not based solely on geopolitics and spheres of influence. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. in these difficult times for the country, it is important that the european union stands ready to help. i am convinced that this is not necessarily best done with huge sums of money, with muscle-balling language towards russia or with unrealistic promises of eu or nato membership. the best thing europe can do is to keep the government in kiev in line, to ensure that the agreements made are respected, and to finally get through the reforms that the country so badly needs and that the ukrainian people are also longing for. the new policy must therefore be ambitious. what i want to convey to commissioner hahn tonight is this: the common values on which the european neighbourhood policy is built, namely respect for human rights and the rule of law, must not be undermined by geopolitical interests.
photographers, newspaper editors and artists are following this debate today because the freedom of panorama may be replaced by a legal dictate. i am against paragraph 46 of the report, because it says that all commercial use of images of public works must be approved in advance. in many european countries, it is simply permitted. why choose the strictest regime here? i don't understand that. my position is: hands off the public space. it's everybody's. what is europe's involvement? member states are perfectly free to decide for themselves how to deal with public space. i will therefore reject any attempt to restrict the freedom of panorama. that's a really crucial point for me. i call on the commissioner, when he comes forward with legislation this autumn, to guarantee freedom of panorama.
(microphone off) …importance of the issue, and already in january we suffered a defeat in the vote on the work programme for 2015. i think we want to prevent that happening once again, and therefore it would be good to have a bit more time to find consensus in the chamber for this important topic, so i support shifting it to september.
in writing. ‒ ttip is an important agreement for the development of transatlantic trade relations and that is why i support the negotiations. but they are far from complete. a fair assessment can only be made on the basis of the facts and the result of the negotiations. this resolution sends an important signal to the european commission about what the european parliament considers important and about what concerns exist. there are clear requirements. we do not want to see standards lowered in areas such as the environment or food safety, no hormone-based meat on the european market, no chlorinated chickens and no genetically modified products. the commissioner malmström has repeatedly assured the ep of this. european legislation to protect citizens and the environment will not be sacrificed for free trade. the harmonization of standards and norms will only take place when they are already very close together. investment is important to our economy. providing a good investment climate, clear and reliable regulation and fair investment protection is important. the reform plans proposed by commissioner malmström provide a good starting point for reforming the isds system and addressing existing weaknesses. the right of member states to develop legislation is clearly laid down in it. these proposals should be reflected in the final outcome of the negotiations.
in writing. the sp abstained on the following amendments: the sp supports the intention of these amendments but is opposed to ttip. the sp voted against amendment no 95 because the sp is not in favour of ttip and therefore not in favour of negotiations on ttip. the sp supports amendment no 77, but is in favour of a foreign policy which is directed towards the eu and its member states, and has therefore voted against amendment no 77.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the amendments, while not ideal, are improvements on the european commission's proposal, which was much less comprehensive and specific in terms of the information to be disclosed.
in writing. ‒ the sp is in favour of an economy in which as much waste as possible is reused. but this is not a task that brussels should impose on us, it is a responsibility of the countries themselves.
in writing. ‒ the sp is in favour of an economy in which as much waste as possible is reused. but this is not a task that brussels should impose on us, it is a responsibility of the countries themselves.
author.– mr president, i would like to thank commissioner malmström for staying with us this afternoon. it is highly appreciated by all of us. i am very happy that we have such a strong and united position from parliament – a strong position that basically says that where civil society flourishes, democracy flourishes, and where trade unions can work and can function properly, democracy flourishes. we have two very key messages for the government of cambodia. please withdraw the law on associations and ngos, as well as the law on trade unions. also, please make sure that any future draft legislation in this area commits to internationally recognised fundamental freedoms and is only adopted through an inclusive process that includes dialogue with stakeholders, ngos and civil society.
author.– mr president, we are all worried that the vital role that cambodian civil society plays – and there are around 5 000 ngos registered – will be stifled by the proposed ngo law, which is restrictive and contradicts not only the cambodian constitution but also the international law commitments that the government is bound by. with our strong commitment to human rights, the eu is spending about eur 410 million between 2014 and 2020. we call on cambodia’s authorities not only to respect human rights but to appreciate the vital role for liberties that a flourishing civil society has and represents as an integral part of sustainable development and growth, and to appreciate that the two should go hand in hand. we urge the cambodian government to act accordingly and respect the freedoms and rights of association of civil society.
- a writer. thank you, commissioner, for being with us. the european parliament is indeed calling for attention to be paid to the fate of yves makwambala and fred bauma. they are in prison in kinshasa after being arrested as members of a youth organization demonstrating for more democracy and against the new electoral laws in congo. the filimbi youth organisation is trying to improve democracy in congo and is being badly beaten. the ep calls for the immediate release of yves makwambala and fred bauma and for the withdrawal of the charges against the activists in kinshasa and goma, who took to the streets in solidarity with their colleagues in kinshasa. we also call attention to the mass grave found in kinshasa. in april, a number of anonymous remains were found, but according to the government in kinshasa, there is not much going on. human rights watch has been investigating and believes that this could be a mass grave with bodies of activists that the government wants to dispose of. the european parliament wants to have the final say and calls on the kinshasa government to investigate this matter thoroughly and to inform the relatives of missing persons about the fate of their loved ones. it's an election year in the congo and things could get incredibly out of hand. it's important that we keep our fingers crossed. it would be terrible if the elections in congo escalated further, because what we would like to see is the future for this country.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, commissioner and colleagues, human rights defender nabil rajab is in prison and in fact was arrested right after we, as members of the european parliament, met with him in brussels. the general human rights situation in bahrain remains dire. thousands are in arbitrary arrest, citizenships are taken away from people and the tensions have been going on for years, and that has been bad; it is bad enough as it is. the eu and this house have been taking a lead role in addressing the tensions in bahrain, not letting it be swept under other problems in the middle east, and i think we have to continue, especially as the us has resumed military aid. but even so, the state department has condemned the human rights violations in bahrain, and now i want to ask: are we really in a situation where the european people’s party is not going to participate in a joint motion for resolution addressing the human rights violations in bahrain today?
it is a historic moment. finally, the interests of animals count in full. for the first time, short-sighted commercial interests do not automatically outweigh animal welfare. the party for the animals therefore welcomes the ruling of the world trade organization. and let there be no misunderstanding about that: if there's one product that should be banned right now, it's seal fur. because every year hundreds of thousands of seals are still being bloody-knuckled to death. the animals are usually very young, less than three months old. babies who are often skinned while fully conscious. why would you do that? just to make money off their fur. seals' fur is an unnecessary fashion item for which newborn animals are horribly slaughtered. and there is no excuse for that. this is why europe decided in 2009 to restrict imports and trade. and of the two exceptions, unfortunately, one remains: the hunt by the inuit. but if we want to preserve traditional culture, we must not encourage the inuit to turn their products into money and to hunt even more babies instead of adult animals. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
today we are discussing the european parliament's report on fundamental rights in the european union, a lofty term which the european elite is increasingly abusing to mask the fact that these human rights apply only unilaterally to a group of people chosen by them. these fundamental rights take many forms. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. so the question is: whose fundamental rights is the european union protecting? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. and not that of the citizens of europe whose freedom is being threatened by imported terror and the islamization of our continent under the guise of freedom of religion. not that of writers, politicians, cartoonists and critics whose freedom of expression is increasingly restricted by charges of hate speech, islamophobia and racism. this abstract morality is particularly evident in the debate on mass immigration. the european elite is mainly concerned with the expulsion of critics. the elite now take the lead in critical member states and make the indigenous people feel guilty. the danger to democracy does not come from eurosceptics, but from the european elite at the helm. the danger to the rule of law does not come from citizens who demand participation through referendums, but from the political elite who see referendums and participation as ballast. the danger to fundamental rights does not come from the member states but from cultural relativists who are restricting and taking away our freely-held values, norms and freedoms one by one. we do not need the european union to protect fundamental rights. in fact, the greatest danger to all the values which the european union claims to represent is the european union itself.
i am not particularly enthusiastic about this own-initiative report, mr president, a report with 65 recitals and 178 paragraphs. there have been reports in this house that were referred back to the committee for less. but i 'll take one thing from it: the refugees. unfortunately, the member states were not able to reach a common decision before the summer on the redistribution of a limited number of refugees across europe. we have seen the shocking images of the past days and weeks and we now know: the refugee crisis is worsening very fast! the european union must now act together, and the leaders of the central and eastern european countries in particular must not hide any longer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the protection of fundamental rights is a core task of the european union. our credibility is therefore closely linked to this. how can we have a foreign policy based on values if we sometimes have our own affairs in order? what if the situation of 10 million roma has not improved in recent years? when lgbt rights and acceptance are far from guaranteed everywhere? then there is the refugee crisis and, in particular, the reactions of some european heads of government. for the first time, i honestly asked myself: we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. do we allow eu government leaders like viktor orbán and fico to openly and sometimes with pride discriminate on the basis of religion and dismiss syrian refugees as a threat to europe because they are muslim? we must take strong action against this and i hope that the european commission will take the lead in this fight.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to say to the shadow rapporteurs in particular that i enjoyed our discussions and cooperation on this report on human rights and technology, so thank you very much. in addition, i would like to thank the people from all over the world who have shared their input and suggestions. many did so online and they have made the draft text that we voted on in the committee on foreign affairs, and will vote on tomorrow in this house, a lot stronger. i think crowdsourcing works. technological developments have a major impact on human rights, both to advance them and to restrict them. they can advance access to information, freedom of expression and association, but the documentation and sharing of human rights abuses or uncovering of corruption have benefited too from mobile phones and access to the open internet for more people. disaster relief, aid efforts, election monitoring, they increasingly rely on technologies to help emancipate and empower people. however, technological systems can be and are also misused as tools for human rights violations through censorship, mass surveillance, tracking and tracing of individuals, unauthorised access to devices, jamming, interception and a lot more. so besides technological specifications, the context in which icts are used determines to a great extent whether these tools advance or violate human rights: what country, which user or buyer, and what legal safeguards or democratic oversight are in place. these contextual aspects should be assessed carefully in eu policies. more transparency and accountability in the market of the most intrusive and damaging technologies is key, both for security and for human rights. this is too often presented as a false dichotomy between security and freedom or actually justifying restrictions to peoples’ rights and freedoms in the name of advancing security when in fact they should reinforce each other and, at the very least, eu-made systems should not be sold in an unrestricted market. without smart policies, proliferation of these systems is inevitable and in fact i am sure that we here in the eu institutions, the european external action service, struggle to protect our own people, our own diplomats and our own information from the very same systems that we are discussing here. intelligence services, criminal networks, hackers with bad intentions, all can buy and use intrusive technologies that are made in europe. the credibility of europe’s foreign policy is undermined directly when an italian company unjustly gets a licence to sell to sudan or russia, or when a french company sells digital keys to open any door, even the ones we may think are protected or locked by passwords, or much stronger measures. but, much worse, human rights defenders in mexico, azerbaijan, colombia, egypt, turkey, iran or russia should be protected by eu policies and not harmed with the help of eu-made technologies. in concluding, eu policy should mainstream human rights in the way that technologies are designed and used and mainstream the role of technologies throughout all human rights policies, and this report presents many concrete ideas. one of the strong recommendations is that there should not be a ban on encryption technologies or requirements to hand over the keys. instead, we, through our eu policy, should train and equip journalists, human rights defenders and others facing repression and violations with the knowledge and the tools to protect themselves and their communications. europe has the opportunity and should have the ambition to be a global leader in ensuring technologies benefit human rights and this is only possible if we lead by example.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group the birth of dolly the sheep, the world's first cloned animal, in 1997 caused a great wave of reaction around the world. it led to horror, disbelief and outrage. and that makes it a very special subject, because it is one of the few subjects on which both the european parliament and the european people are in complete agreement. it is morally reprehensible and should be banned. european citizens do not want it, consumers do not want it. the farmers don't need it, and the animals are paying the price. that's the gist of what cloning is all about. first of all, the consumers. they reject it en masse and want a free choice to reject it. so if it's going to be on the market, they want a good label. it will lead to a lot of problems in the agricultural sector, much more than we have now, because it will lead to the demise of small farmers. in addition, there is immense animal suffering. because the only purpose is to create offspring of highly productive animals. even after three decades of research, there's been no progress in terms of animal welfare, in terms of effectiveness, in terms of efficiency. still, the vast majority of animals die at birth and only a small percentage survive the first year of life, suffering from disease and abnormalities. many surrogate mothers suffer unbearably, they suffer from the procedure itself, and they all have to undergo a cesarean section. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the party for the animals calls for a total ban without any exception. a ban on cloning animals and a ban on imports. i also think that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
"blue card" question. what is it? my colleague is advocating a temporary ban and not a permanent ban, but we heard very clearly at the hearing that there have been no real improvements in efficiency in the last few decades, that the technology has made little progress and that it is still as bad as it was 30 years ago. do you not think that it would be much better to maintain a permanent ban and you also pointed out that there are ethical concerns, but these ethical concerns are present throughout the european union. would not a special procedure, as outlined by the commissioner, be legitimate in this case?
farmers all over europe are having a hard time at the moment, but the market orientation of agricultural policy is something we have been working towards for decades and a great asset. i support the european commission in this. this is the future. but farmers must be able to operate on a level playing field. same monks, same caps. i know. we'll also need to lower the control pressure. agricultural policy is too complicated and hinders farmers from being entrepreneurs. a good example is the rigid greening requirements. we must remain competitive in the global market. this should be the aim of european policy-makers, but they too often live in a paper reality. the european parliament's proposal to trace the offspring of cloned animals and their products is just such an unworkable proposal. it is absolutely impracticable to ban the products of the offspring of cloned animals, such as milk and meat. the products of cloned animals are indistinguishable from non-cloned animals. the cloning of animals is banned in the european union and rightly so. until it is conclusively proven that cloning has no adverse effect on the health and welfare of the animal, i think that should remain the case. the european commission has made a balanced proposal based on scientific advice from the european food safety authority. the proposal is based on facts. the european parliament's proposal, on the other hand, is based on fear mongering. i shall therefore vote against the european parliament's proposal.
in parliament we think about the future. i am glad that this is so, because it is very necessary, especially when we are talking about cloning animals. but in the end, it's about the people. but now we must get the facts straight. only then can we make a decision that takes account of the real situation. and that situation is that there are a lot of products from cloned animals on the european market at the moment and have been for a long time. which brings me to the traceability of cloned animals. we are for a europe with fewer rules. are we now going to advocate that cloned animals should be traceable to the third generation? i wonder if this is feasible and i am sure it is not. look at all the milk from all the farmers that ends up in one tank. even in the case of non-cloned animals, it is already difficult to guarantee data on breed and quality. if that is not possible now, why do we want to start with cloned animals? and i have not even mentioned products from cloned animals from third countries. in short, let's keep this discussion reasonable. only then can we make policies that are really oriented towards the future.
i am in favour of a total ban on cloning and we therefore support this report. my party has ethical objections to cloning, as it goes against the order of creation. it is also associated with great suffering and a high mortality rate among cloned animals. a tracing system must be introduced as soon as possible to prevent clones from third countries from entering the community. i strongly urge the eu to speak out in international forums for a worldwide ban on cloning. third countries must also stop, first of all for ethical reasons, and secondly, there must be unanimity to ensure a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ seal fur is an unnecessary fashion product for which seals are brutally killed. that is why the sale and import of seal products was banned in europe years ago. but there were two exceptions, the hunting of seals in the baltic sea and the hunting by the indigenous peoples (the inuit). the world trade organization has spoken out on this, finding for the first time in history that animal welfare is a legitimate reason to restrict trade. the party for the animals believes that there is no excuse or justification for the hunting of seals. that is why i have proposed that these two exceptions be deleted. the hunting of european seals is completely unnecessary. the second. the inuit hunt in particular does not meet european standards for animal welfare. if the inuit need seals for their survival, then we should not encourage them to sell seal fur to europe. the european parliament did not have a majority in favour of abolishing the inuit exception. nevertheless, i have agreed to the final proposal because it further restricts large-scale commercial seal hunting.
in writing. ‒ 'blue growth', or economic growth by using our oceans and seas. this is a further exploitation of natural resources at sea. however, the limits of the earth do not allow for further exploitation, and this is certainly true of the eu's already heavily polluted and overfished waters. the european fishing fleet is already twice the size of the fish stocks it can support. the ecosystems in our seas are being disrupted by pollution. our economic activities at sea should not grow, but shrink. this requires a different way of thinking about economics. we must abandon the naive belief in growth and take as a starting point the sustainability of the earth and the well-being of all its inhabitants. that is why i voted against this report.
on behalf of the ppe group, i thank the commissioner for his detailed explanation. i regret that the front row of the council is empty, because i had thought it very important, after all the intense debates that have taken place in the council, to hear the council's voice here today in this debate. i am disappointed, as are many others, in the outcome of the council. i had really hoped - and perhaps i was a little naive - that after last summer, after all that has happened from calais to austria and from bodrum to budapest, we would be discussing this problem here in a different atmosphere. but if there is one thing that the member states have proved, it is that a system of voluntary redistribution simply does not work. when 20,000 refugees arrive on an island like lesbos every week, but we are not able to redistribute 16,000 refugees from greece on a voluntary basis to other countries, then voluntary action simply does not work. then we must move towards a binding system and i am glad that this house is very much in favour of that. but let us not fool ourselves: the redistribution of refugees is only one part of a european migration agenda. if we do nothing, if we cannot make progress on all the other aspects, such as an efficient return policy, better deals with third countries, tackling people smugglers, tackling the underlying causes of the unrest, then we could talk for a long time in this chamber about the redistribution of refugees, but then we have done too little to address the root causes.
i would like to congratulate the european commission on its handling of this refugee crisis. before the summer, i thought, what a slim proposal, to resettle 40,000 people. what's the point of that? i appreciated the opportunity to use this to reach a compromise, but i found your gesture to be rather limited. i have the strong impression that tomorrow the european commission will come with a broader proposal and we may have seen the shore turn the ship this summer, so i would like to congratulate you. in that light, i do not know how to understand the absence of the european council here today. because actually, we have to say that we don't have a refugee crisis here, but if you see refugees arriving at the station in munich and then in a couple of hours they arrive at a shelter with clean sheets and a hot shower, i would say: we can handle the refugee crisis. what we have is a governance crisis! we have a management crisis that needs to be resolved by next monday. on 14 september the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior will meet, and if they do not reach an agreement then i think our governance crisis will deepen. i am surprised to see that when angela merkel calls for a front group, there are countries that do not want to join, countries in western europe that look the other way! that the countries of central and eastern europe should come together and point the finger at each other. when i used to tell my mother: when they're at marietje's house, they don't have to do the dishes, and my mother said, that's a case from marietje's house. we do things differently here! this is a personal responsibility which we must take on and i wish the european commission much strength in this! in closing, i want to say to you: the european parliament is behind you from left to right.
the debate over mass immigration has become a "look at me being moral" contest, in which the media, politicians and other groups of people try to give each other credit. and all to make citizens feel guilty at home and justify the import of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. because if you really want to elevate your morals, why don't you take in an asylum seeker yourself? the fact that he may be one of the 4,000 terrorists of the islamic state who entered with those illegal immigrants is not mentioned and critical questions are raised. but what do these mostly young men come here to do? why are they not helping to rebuild their own country? why are the stone-rich gulf states and the safe turkey not good enough? the answer is obvious. because there's no free housing, free health care, and free money. that is why they are taking their chances on the water, and the european union is making it possible. instead of stopping this increase in asylum seekers, the european union is going to divide up the illegal immigrants and this parliament even wants them to be able to choose their final destination in the future. who are you speaking for? not on behalf of the majority of the dutch people who want to close the border and are against taking in more refugees.
on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. european cohesion policy is really the most important policy area for investment in our economy. these investments will generate economic growth and create jobs. so for new jobs and for economic strength. the commission makes relatively little reference to the territorial approach in its sixth cohesion report. the main focus is on crossborder cooperation. it is precisely in these european border regions that there are enormous opportunities, particularly for increasing labour mobility. the challenge would be to create a genuine european labour market where there are now 28 different labour markets. we can therefore expect the european commission to put in place a genuine european territorial agenda and to report extensively on this in the seventh cohesion report. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. these are - mrs westphal rightly said - the engines of our economic growth. these are the places where solutions to social problems are devised. whether it's smart mobility in those cities or sustainable forms of energy generation. it's invented in the cities. so these are also the places where european regulations, where european policy comes in and must be implemented. let us therefore involve cities more closely in the formulation of european policies. let us therefore involve the cities in the preparation of policy. i hope that the commission will pay more attention to cities in the coming years and i hope that the commission will actually take up the challenge of shaping the content of a real european urban agenda. because with a real european urban agenda we are also actually empowering european cities and that is what makes a strong europe.
the sixth cohesion report does provide building blocks for future policy, investment and solidarity. i thank the rapporteur. let's look ahead for a moment. what does the epp think should be done differently? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the gold plating in the member states leads to control over control. we want more trust and shared responsibility. the second. away with that big pile of 25 billion unpaid bills. the european commission is taking steps to ensure that this does not happen again in a few years' time. the third. prevent the recurrence of lost years as in the 2014-2015 start-up. with all due respect, we're starting late with the review. the next review must be at least one year earlier. we must use the midterm review to prepare the new policy and we must bring forward the seventh cohesion report by one year. the report also stresses the need to develop a common approach to the problem of crossborder work in europe. 4. other the cities. the european commission has no coherent policy. smart cities for cities and smart specialisation for regions are still offered separately. the european parliament has also called for a new approach to the problem of the environment. i would like the dutch presidency next year not to come with just another declaration on the urban agenda, but with a commitment, with a pact - an amsterdam pact, as it may be called - calling on the mayors and the regions to implement this agenda of innovation, of competitiveness. that is an innovation in our approach and there is room for it. may i ask the commissioner if that sounds like music to her ears?
last year, olaf, the european anti-fraud office, received the highest number of reports of fraud involving eu grants in its history. in total, there were 1417 notifications and an investigation revealed that approximately eur 900 million is to be recovered. that's just the tip of the iceberg. but that will not hurt the commission, because this money is not really intended for the development of the regions, but to keep countries satisfied and dependent. and that's what we need in these difficult times. because the eu has fallen into a free fall, a free fall that is best compared to the roman empire of 1500 years ago. the roman empire was plagued by invasions from outside, just like the eu is today. and in the roman empire, there was also corruption and much abuse of power. but in the end, that roman empire came to an end because of lack of unity. if we look at the eu now, that unity is there, if things go well. however, with the great problems of today there is no unity, it is each man for himself and god for us all. so let's be honest and admit that the undemocratically elected administration of the eu is incapable of overseeing problems like greece or the refugee problem, let alone solving them. let us be honest and admit that far too many countries have joined. and finally, let's be honest and admit that this is a failed experiment and that we'd better dissolve the eu right now.
i am glad that mr kukan's report looks back to 2012. i remember that moment. it was active ageing, the commission said, and then we also looked at it from age europe, the umbrella of the organisations, and from the interfaction group, and said: the only way to achieve this is to add solidarity between generations. i am still glad that it happened then, because without a change of policy, we see it only in the care sector, one in four young people would have to go into the care sector. that's the challenge. there's another way. it's got to be different. the second point is: in europe, many people retire. two retired and one younger back. this creates unique opportunities for both the younger and the older generation. so i think that as such it has been a very positive move and above all - i am looking at the commissioner - that we should continue to do so. we have that partnership. we've done a lot of projects to get there. can i expect the commission to take up this and continue it in the run-up to eu 2020?
- i'm the reporter. welcome, commissioner, and good of you to be here today. i present my report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution; i have tabled a non-legislative resolution alongside a draft legislative resolution. and that is precisely why parliament can say more than just yes or no to the fisheries agreement. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission and certainly the secretariat of our committee on fisheries for the cooperation. unfortunately, cape verde is not a highly developed country. it ranks 131st on the un development index, which totals 187 countries. the economy is growing, especially tourism. it is regrettable that just last week the archipelago was hit by a major hurricane for the first time in over a hundred years. fortunately, the damage from this hurricane was not that great. but what you do see is increased uncertainty. are storms like this going to happen more often? could that be related to climate change? as regards the draft legislative resolution, i recommend that parliament approve the new protocol. i think that is beneficial both for the european union and for our fishermen who use it. but it is also important for cape verde to get economic returns from the fish stocks in their waters. fortunately, mr ponga, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, and mr fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, also came to this conclusion. i thank both rapporteurs for their opinions. the european union concluded a fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde in 1990 and six protocols have been implemented since then. so we're dealing with the seventh protocol, which has a four-year term. the total amount involved in the agreement is eur 3.3 million and can be roughly divided into eur 1 million for compensation for access to the waters, eur 1 million for sectoral support and eur 1.2 million for compensation by the shipowners. compared with the previous protocol, the amount of sectoral aid in particular has increased considerably. it has actually doubled, and that means more projects to improve fisheries monitoring and also to combat illegal fishing. in addition, there are projects to improve safety, particularly for local fishermen, and to train and educate these people, and i am also pleased to report that european ship owners are also contributing more to the quotas they use. then the sharks. that is a subject on which i have tabled a non-legislative resolution. because the shark catch has increased greatly in these waters off cape verde, doubling in fact. the commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties. this worrying development has led to the inclusion of three measures in this protocol. the first. the number of longliners is being reduced from 35 to 30, and it is the fishermen and the fishing methods that are bringing out many sharks. the second. the shark catch is monitored and thresholds of 1500 and 2000 tonnes are built in, after which control measures can be taken. the third. there's going to be an investigation into the life of the sharks in that area over there. of course, i know that this is a sensitive subject, and these measures in the protocol are a first step, but i think the thresholds that are built into these measures are quite low. they'll be here soon. i think it is important for this parliament to keep our finger on the pulse by following developments closely and i ask the commission to do the same. there is a real need to take action, because sharks are a vulnerable fish stock and should not be overfished. they are part of god's creation and vital to the ecosystem. i therefore ask you to support my amendment to tighten up the text.
- i'm the reporter. i note that there is a large majority in parliament to support the fisheries agreement with cape verde. thank you to the colleagues. various other comments have been made. first of all, several colleagues have discussed the role of the european parliament. a few even complained that the role would be too limited. i can understand that. i understand that, but that is all the more reason for me to say to these colleagues: i would like to ask the commissioner to support my non-legislative resolution tomorrow on the vote, because it is precisely in this way that we are going to make a number of points and take steps to strengthen the role of the ep. so tomorrow, when you vote, put the deed to the word. another point. some have said that the budget is too low, especially for cape verde. i understand that, too. i would like to say again to those colleagues: i would ask you to amend the budget to increase the amount and to be able to pay more for, for example, the training and education of local fishermen and the improvement of their situation. i say that too: complaining is one thing, but then taking action and fixing it through the budget. finally, shark the subject. it is not for nothing, of course, that this protocol also announced a series of measures to protect the shark population. the thresholds that are included are quite low, so we know that action is needed very quickly to better protect the sharks. we can do that by strengthening the role and involvement of parliament, but also by supporting my amendment tomorrow. i have proposed a text that is just a little more pointed to underline parliament's commitment to this particular issue of sharks. so i'm asking for your support.
- i'm the reporter. first of all, i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs and all those involved in this midterm review for their cooperation. we have had a lengthy process with 633 amendments and it was not easy to get the shadow rapporteurs to agree on a coherent story. but we did it. i would also like to thank the staff of the various political groups, in particular the epp group and parliament, for their cooperation. the first comments on the white paper were a bit reticent. not much new policy and not much sharp choices. but it is a midterm review and so it is also intended to mark continuity in policy. i think that went well. a european union which would present a completely new transport policy every four years is not credible. it's a midterm review and it's about implementation and continuity. the transport sector is very important for europe. in the netherlands we always say: without transport, everything is at a standstill. the transport sector has a high earning capacity and is of great importance for the development of the european economy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the same time, the transport sector must become more sustainable. the transport sector accounts for 24% of pollution in europe, the energy sector for 29%. well, then you understand our position. sustainability is not only a threat, but also an opportunity for innovation and innovation in the transport sector, and that is what we will have to work on for the next 10 to 20 years. the commission has already made a number of proposals. unfortunately, we have to say that the modal shift, the shift from road and air transport to rail and inland waterways, has not yet been achieved. that is a very unfortunate observation, because we want cleaner transport in inland waterways and on trains. the european union's investment in the coming years will therefore have to give priority to railways and inland waterways, whether or not combined with maritime transport. that is a conclusion we all share. then the intelligent transport systems. we want more innovation and we also want an electronic bill of lading by 2020; it's a big challenge for us to make things happen. there are a number of proposals, for example for doubling the number of urban transport services, which have raised a lot of dust, but my colleagues will speak about them later.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleague, mr wim van de camp, for their excellent cooperation. we had said beforehand that we did not want a document which was grey and which was really a compromise but which therefore said nothing. we want a compromise which also makes some points clear. and i think we have succeeded in doing that together and we certainly have mr van de camp to thank for that. it has not become a green text on all points, but it cannot be until we have a majority. but i do think that there are a number of points which are extremely important and it is also good for the commission and the commissioner to see that the report is embraced. however, there are some very clear points which need to be improved. because if we look at the current state of transport - and mr van de camp has already said this - we are actually quite behind on this modal shift, the transition to the use of inland waterways and railways. that's not good. and if you look at reducing the environmental pollution from the transportation sector. that's not going well either. it is still unclear how europe will work towards this in the longer term after 2020. there are still challenges here too, and we expect more from the commission. it is also very important that this should be added to the social policy. we all know that the opening up of the services market has a social dimension. this too is being given more attention and the commission is clearly invited to come forward with proposals. these have also been announced, but they are still lacking in substance. i think it is important that this report is clearly seen as a call to the commission to not just embrace the developments so far. it is also important to come up with new proposals so that we can say at the end of the white paper: yes, the transport sector is really on the right track.
pilots who are sick and yet they fly because they don't get paid. truck drivers who have to drive day and night because they're afraid of losing their jobs. companies that are really flouting all the rules, because they know they're not being audited anyway. it can't be done. it's not allowed. europe must put an end to this. the proposals in this report are good and i would almost say 'thank god' that the christian democrats are now convinced that something must be done. i would like to pay tribute to my colleague, mr van de camp. the juncker commission must now act. the commissioner is expressing her political will today. i think it is time to show ambition with concrete proposals to put an end to the social injustices in the transport sector.
- i'm the reporter. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner and her staff, but also my colleagues, for their comments this evening. also for the critical sounds. unfortunately, mrs foster has already left, but i understand very well what she said tonight and we will try to take that into account in the further implementation. the challenge will be to implement this white paper, this midterm review. and i see it as my task in the years to come to see that everything we have written down and hopefully accepted tomorrow is also implemented. the commissioner said it: we must move towards a new balance of fewer rules, more sustainability, more earning capacity, but we must not forget the social aspect either. that will be a big job for the next four years, including for the committee on transport. and i repeat: the other committees cannot work without transport!
today, mr juncker is presenting a plan to distribute 160 000 migrants across the eu. let me be the first to say this: it is not the juncker plan, but the merkel plan. it is angela merkel who, with president hollande, wants to impose this plan on the whole of the eu through mr juncker. that is the eu's democracy in action! germany is realizing that it cannot take in these people and is now letting the rest of the member states take the fall for the mess it has made of it by giving priority to providing free housing, free care and free money to the asylum seekers. this merkel plan does not say: we're gonna stop giving free money to anyone who comes to the door with a sad story, no matter how unbelievable. this merkel plan is clinging to schengen, while among these illegal immigrants are many thousands of isis terrorists. i'm closing up. mr juncker, go back to mrs merkel and explain it to her again. solidarity with the european citizen, understanding of his security. close the national borders and stop giving free money to those hundreds of thousands of fortune seekers, while 120 million eu citizens live in poverty.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, but has not yet voted in favour of the report. we should give refugees, asylum seekers the right to work from the moment they apply. because work is dignity. he also said: we must allow legal migration, and he was referring to labour migration, economic migration, because, he said, we cannot fight illegal migration if there are no other forms of migration. my question to mr avramopoulos and mr timmermans is this: the proposals you are making are sound and solid, and i commend you for that. but the next step, as announced by mr juncker, to look at labour migration, cannot wait too long. because, yes, work is dignity. that is what i hope you will be putting on the table very soon.
in writing. merciful and just. these key biblical concepts guide me in dealing with migrants and refugees. the european union is not a party to the conflict. many citizens are setting a good example by helping refugees with beds, baths, and bread. each european member state must contribute to this fund. just by committing to safe habitats in northern iraq and northern syria, by properly setting up and equipping regional refugee camps in the middle east and north africa, by making arrangements for returning to safe countries and by fully committing to tackling human traffickers. and righteous by not being naive: isis fighters would come along in these migration flows. our security services must be on double alert.
‒ fisheries agreements between the eu and developing countries are aimed at draining the seas and oceans. european waters are severely overfished. any more fishing is bad for biodiversity. such policies not only harm animals, nature and the environment, but also the local people on earth. we just have to stop the subsidized overfishing. negotiating another round of fisheries agreements is not going to fix the eu's failing fisheries policy. nor will it help the eu to rebuild its faltering fishing fleet. that is why i voted against the fisheries agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau.
‒ fisheries agreements between the eu and developing countries are aimed at draining the seas and oceans. european waters are severely overfished. any more fishing is bad for biodiversity. such policies not only harm animals, nature and the environment, but also the local people on earth. we just have to stop the subsidized overfishing. negotiating another round of fisheries agreements is not going to fix the eu's failing fisheries policy. nor will it help the eu to rebuild its faltering fishing fleet. that is why i voted against the fisheries agreement between the eu and cape verde.
‒ fisheries agreements between the eu and developing countries are aimed at draining the seas and oceans. european waters are severely overfished. any more fishing is bad for biodiversity. such policies not only harm animals, nature and the environment, but also the local people on earth. we just have to stop the subsidized overfishing. negotiating another round of fisheries agreements is not going to fix the eu's failing fisheries policy. nor will it help the eu to rebuild its faltering fishing fleet. that is why i voted against the fisheries agreement between the eu and madagascar.
in writing. ‒ vvd is of the opinion that refugees must accept the outcome of the allocation system and should not be able to object to being placed in another eu member state. if a refugee can avoid being placed in another country than germany, the whole system will not work anymore.
in writing. ‒ we must move quickly towards a european approach to the refugee issue. with mandatory redistribution of asylum seekers across all member states. but also with the return of asylum seekers from safe countries and a firm approach to human traffickers. merciful and just. the keller report makes some valuable suggestions to both the council and the commission for the juncker plan for the relocation of asylum seekers. the most important is to give asylum seekers the opportunity to indicate a member state of first choice. for example, because they already speak the language or have relatives living there. and member states can also give preference, for example, to asylum seekers with certain professional qualifications. it is also a question of allowing asylum seekers to indicate that choice: that preference shall not create obligations for a member state. keller goes too far when she makes this a large bureaucratic procedure, including interviews with liaison officers and the possibility for asylum seekers to object to the relocation decision. i voted for the report with this footnote.
blue card question: mr boştinaru, you are very much in favour of the peace plan of knesset member hilik bar. i share your esteem for hilik bar, because i know him personally. my question is: mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. his name is mentioned. i have serious doubts that mr hilik bar can find his way into this resolution!
the member states of the european union are today engaged in a veritable race to do good business with the islamic republic of iran, whose state ideology is to support and pursue the destruction of the jewish state of israel. on the eu's role in the peace process in the region: iran is mobilizing and training palestinian terrorist organizations for that intended destruction of israel. high representative, what peaceful role does the eu actually play vis-à-vis tehran and its palestinian cronies? explain that to me! because you don't want to drag the last piece of land in the region into the current hurricane of unbridled violence, do you?
we are still committed to the two-state solution, but it seems further away than ever at the moment, indeed, facts are slowly being created on the ground that no longer allow a two-state solution. that is why urgent action is absolutely necessary now. the eu will have to start by removing a financial incentive for settlement building in occupied territories. i therefore welcome the announcement that you will be coming forward with a proposal on the labelling of products from illegal settlements. i also ask the high representative to urge the israeli authorities to lift the blockade of gaza. the situation for people there is becoming more dire by the day. i welcome your desire to play a more active role in bringing the israelis and palestinians back to the negotiating table. i am prepared to put all the roots and stems at your disposal.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, in these challenging times, which expose our divisions and lack of position on the global stage, we must underline that when the eu leads, and when we are united, we see results. my compliments go to you, high representative, your predecessors javier solana and catherine ashton, and your teams. i enjoyed seeing pictures of the almost all-female crew, but mostly the results that were reached behind closed doors. they must have inspired many women in iran, too, who need room for participation in society and politics. certainly the ambitious, smart, iranian young generation inspires me. now we must see to it that all sides stick to their commitments and implement their part of the deal. this is only the beginning. i think we have no time to lose in developing a broader eu agenda in relation to iran, and human rights should be top of that agenda. for too long, quite frankly, they have been overshadowed by these – albeit important – negotiations. executions; torture (which is systematic); censorship of the media, the internet, academia and art; repression of minorities; no fair trial, and lawyers like the brave sakharov prize winner nasrin sotoudeh, who are banned from practising law and have faced imprisonment. the iranian people deserve better. also, economically the risk is that the deal and the lifting of sanctions will only strengthen the already very strong position of a few: the revolutionary guards and those close to the people in power. but iran needs a truly private sector, and i think we have work to do to make sure that eu companies do not blindly take the opportunities in the economic openings they see but are actually aware of the full picture. we must engage iran in the explosive regional situation and talk to them in a diplomatic effort to end their support for the murderous regime of bashar al-assad, which continues to bomb its people, and to stop supporting terrorist organisations like hezbollah. our agenda is long, and we should start today.
madam high representative, there is a very important question on my lips after this iran deal, no matter how you feel about it, whether it is bad or good, which i would like to address to you tonight: what about strict international control of iran's compliance with the nuclear deal - and that's the point - down to the level of detail. because i've also spoken to experts. and then i have two additions to this question, because that's really what it's all about. in the case of iraq, there was also an international committee of experts that the iaea also monitored. that would be important with iran, given iran's lack of transparency in the past. because it's very controversial. a second point: it's not like the iaea has secret deals with iran. they should all be made public. it is even against the iaea's statutes. i would like to give you that, and i would like to ask you: what is the situation with implementation and control, double-checking, given the past? it doesn't start, as i said here, in 2013. we've been dealing with iran for several decades.
europeans have a right to fair and good work. i am therefore very pleased that commission president juncker also stressed the importance of good quality work this morning. but in the face of unemployment, and particularly longterm unemployment, zero-hour contracts, mini-jobs, flex jobs until retirement, seem to be becoming the rule rather than the exception in europe. a large group of young people have little perspective and too much uncertainty. if you don't know if you're gonna have a job next year or next month, how are you ever gonna start a family of your own? but the commission continues to prescribe the drug of flexibilization in its recommendations to the various member states, when it is clear that the patient has not improved much. europe's labour market is not in a good place and the crisis has added to the uncertainty. i would say, now is the time to invest extra in good, honest and secure work, with the opportunity to develop yourself and with the opportunity to develop your talent. we want europe to become a competitive knowledge-based economy. it is high time that the commission took the lead by encouraging member states to invest in good jobs, because when they invest in good jobs they also stimulate the european economy. my appeal does not only hold the jobseekers responsible, but also the member states and the european commission. they must take responsibility for helping 24 million europeans to get good jobs and i very much hope that my colleague martina dlabajová shares this view.
- a writer. i think i can copy a lot of what mr demesmaeker said. whether mr dos santos has been in power for 35 or 36 years, we are dealing with a totally corrupt country that makes its money from oil, which is why we have actually turned our backs on it for the last few years. now that prices have fallen, the country's budget has been cut in half and the misery is growing. yes, the regime feels threatened by people reading a book. the regime is becoming more and more cruel. the news is that rafael marques tried to leave the country yesterday, was arrested at luanda airport, released, but not free to leave the country. my question to the european commission is: can we keep an eye on rafael marques' welfare in luanda? and finally , we must help organise an independent inquiry into the huambo massacre in april.
author.– mr president, human rights violations have systematically increased in azerbaijan with excessive sentences for journalist khadija ismayilova and human rights defenders leyla yunus and her husband, and there are many more political prisoners. in fact civil society, political opposition figures, human rights defenders and journalists face intimidation, violence and repression. to those who are now frantically calling for more time for silent diplomacy, i say that the azeri authorities have had all the time in the world to make sure that human rights were respected in their own country and that they respected commitments they made to implement the rulings of the european court of human rights and their commitments under the osce, and to ensure that the strategic and eastern partnerships also include respect for democracy and human rights. we do not need another kind of russian scenario in azerbaijan and therefore we must speak out now. what is the alternative to strong words in the face of the gravest human rights violations, and what good will more silent diplomacy do? yes, dialogue, but with a strong message, and so far we have not seen that any silent efforts have rendered the results that we needed.
we were also here a year ago and we spoke shamefully about the arrests of prominent human rights activists, journalists and lawyers in azerbaijan. this parliament even nominated one of them, leyla yunus, for the sakharov prize last year. and although baku is an important partner of the eu, it has so far not been attracted by this criticism. last summer, i was present at the start of the sham trial against leyla and arif yunus. they were in a glass cage and couldn't consult with their lawyers. both have serious health problems. arif yunus even had to be taken away in the ambulance during the trial. it was obvious to everyone that it was an absurd charge and not a fair trial. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the matter is a very serious matter. this is the present azerbaijan! i therefore find it incomprehensible that the european union's diplomatic service and the commission have so far not made any clear statement on the situation in azerbaijan. after the sentencing of leyla and arif, the call for their release finally came. however, this was not the case in the cases of intigam aliyev, rasul jafarov and khadija ismayilova. they're in prison for something they didn't do. the european parliament is clear today. we call on the azeri government to release all political prisoners immediately. an important part of the eu's neighbourhood policy is the 'more for more' principle. the more democratic reforms a country carries out, the more support it receives from the eu. the reverse should also be true for me: less for less. we call on azerbaijan to fulfil its obligations as a member of the council of europe. until then, my group calls for targeted financial sanctions and a visa ban on all politicians and officials involved in the political persecution.
mr president, i do not want to take more of your time but this is just a correction to make sure that the odihr mission for election observations would not mistakenly be put in a bad light, so it would simply remove the last sentence of paragraph 22.
in writing. ‒ vvd abstained on the resolution as a whole for two reasons: firstly: the proposal that asylum seekers, refugees and labour migrants are entitled to work during the procedures and granting of a definitive status. vvd is of the opinion that only if and when the asylum seeker, refugee or labour migrant has been granted a final and irrevocable status, may that person enter the labour market. otherwise, expectations will be raised that the person concerned would be entitled to stay anyway. secondly: the fact that the resolution proposes taking into account the preferences and consent of refugees for the countries they will be allocated to. this would undermine the allocation and quota system, as most refugees prefer in the end to stay in germany or other countries such as austria, the netherlands, belgium, denmark and sweden. vvd did not vote against the resolution because it is of the opinion that a new, integral system for asylum, refugee policy and labour migration, including protection of the eu’s external borders through frontex and settlement in the region, must be created. those persons not granted a status to come to or stay in the eu must be expelled.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on migration and refugees in europe. the text mentions a number of good things, such as the mandatory dispersal of asylum seekers across europe in emergency situations, a tough approach to the criminal traffickers and a stricter approach to asylum seekers from safe countries. however, the text goes too far on a number of points, for example in paragraph 13, where philosophizing is done on the possibilities of lodging asylum applications at the embassies and consulates of the european member states in the source countries. this would lead to intolerable situations. the resolution also calls on the commission to ensure that the eu budget for 2016 is fully integrated into the eu's external action. i wholeheartedly agree with that, that money is needed. but this has to be budget-neutral. so the money has to be found elsewhere in the budget.
the european union, led by germany, has unleashed a tsunami of asylum on us. and now there's panic because there's a complete evacuation going on, and hundreds of thousands more will follow, on their way to free housing and free health care. but despite this tsunami of asylum, despite the thousands of terrorists being allowed in, the european union is sticking to its open-border fiction. as more and more people turn against mass immigration, brussels is dictating that more asylum seekers should be admitted. first 40 000, then 120 000, and in view of the displacement you have called upon us to bring about, another 500 000. because that is democracy in brussels: doing the opposite of what people want back home. it's time you started serving your own citizens instead of the boatloads of illegal fortune seekers. close the borders and send all asylum seekers back to where they came from.
people are smarter than fences. member states who think we can deter refugees with barbed wire and border guards do not understand that a person in need is a survivor. fences, laws and paper barriers are creating dehumanizing conditions at our borders and i think hungary is the worst example of this at the moment. we expect the council to act accordingly. this parliament will again show today, and in the vote tomorrow, that we want member states to show solidarity with each other and with refugees. we expect action from the council. we also expect the council to keep its own colleagues on their toes. so , what do you say ? you behave or there'll be action. i think it is time for member states to say to each other: hungary, viktor orban, what you do has consequences.
in fact, in planning to deal with the refugee crisis, reception in the region always plays a crucial role. if there is a human protection in the region, that is fine. but the un refugee agency is issuing report after report showing that there is no humanity at all. the latest report, "living in the shadows", describes the dramatic situation in jordan. we knew all the drama in lebanon. unhcr is asking for 5.5 billion for 2015. so far, not even half of them have come in. that means smaller food rations for the refugees, that means no financial support for many of the most vulnerable refugees outside the camps. if we are serious about the region's shelter, it is no longer about millions but billions of euros. the same goes for resettlement. respond to unhcr requests and resettle the most vulnerable refugees. i do not hear any figures from the commission or the european union. we want to know how much money is available and how many places to relocate.
on 3 october, it will be exactly two years since more than 300 refugees were killed in a boat disaster off lampedusa. we've seen a lot in the last two years. we have seen proposals from the european commission, we have seen resolutions from parliament, we have seen council conclusions and time and again we have stressed the urgency. we have stressed the need for solidarity. we have called for concrete action. but if we look back at what has actually been done in the last two years, we have very little to be proud of, with the absolute low point being the council conclusions of july and those of last monday. i would therefore like to leave it at a simple appeal to the member states: i would like to ask you to step over your own shadow, step over your national egos and please show us next week that the 'u' of the european union also means something to you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. the taxpayer therefore pays for the failures. the failures of the eu are numerous, but i will mention three: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes. now the commission, in all its wisdom, has decided to combine these three problem cases, these three failures into an übermissal and put the image of climate refugee on it. the taxpayers are sick of it, they're done with the eu. they are no longer willing to turn up for the cost of this naive failure. so i ask you: stop this nonsense, stop the waste and return the money to its rightful owner. i would like to end on a positive note, good news, because in the netherlands it is possible to vote by referendum. i hope to be able to announce soon on behalf of geenpeil that this referendum on the eu is going to take place.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner timmermans for highlighting the point of coherence, because i very much agree that all the institutions can improve on coherence. in my previous term i was in the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament. it felt like two totally different worlds although we are the same parliament. there is the problem, and i very much welcome seeing how we can address it. but since we are discussing coherence, is it also true for the sustainable development goals? many people are now talking as if this is only for developing countries, but these goals are also crucial for europe. sustainable access to water and reducing inequality are issues and challenges for us in europe as well. i would also like to hear more concrete details from the commission on what we are going to do to make sure that europe achieves the sustainable development goals. finally, to the council: coherence is also about making paris a success. how are we going to make sure that financing is delivered in paris? because, as mary robinson said, if paris is going to fail we are going to fail on delivering on the sustainable development goals. so financing is key, and where the council really needs to deliver.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. in response, some member states have immediately chosen to go back to the past by demanding market intervention. i am glad that the commissioner has kept his back straight and has not thrown the market-oriented agricultural policy straight into the trash by, for example, raising the intervention price. the commission, however, has one foot in the past and the other in the future. more support from brussels is not a structural solution but a blanket against the bleeding. farmers need a better competitive position and the space to be able to undertake, innovate and compete on the world market. this is achieved by fewer rules, simpler rules and a level playing field, including with third countries. the best solution is free: the simplification of agricultural policy. it's free. i therefore think it is a missed opportunity that the european commission has not taken up this glove. the nitrates directive must also be brought up to date. farmers have to dispose of manure and at the same time supply fertiliser, while there are innovations that allow farmers to use animal manure to make high-quality fertiliser substitutes. however, now that the commission has opted for a package of aid, it is important that the commission maintains a level playing field. the conditions of the aid package are too vague. i am against the aid package being used as direct income support in some member states. this leads to unfair competition. the commission must be vigilant, maintain a level playing field and avoid additional national contributions on top of the aid package. this will only increase the differences between member states. let us opt for structural solutions by giving farmers the space to do what they do best, namely to be entrepreneurial and innovative.
last monday, i stood among the farmers to support them in their protest. i heard the concerns of our family businesses. yesterday it became clear that the dutch farmers were receiving 30 million euros in aid. we're happy about that. but that money has to go to the people who really need it. we must also set up a european stability fund as soon as possible, as was agreed in belgium through the belgian chain consultation on agri-food and as was made clear at last week's action. the fund should provide a safety net for affected farmers during the next agricultural crisis. the agricultural ministers must also come together to create a level playing field in europe, especially when it comes to the cost of inspection. finally, the main agenda item for the coming period: the position of the farmer in the chain. like my colleague mairead mcguinness, i think the power of supermarkets is too great. to change this situation, the competition rules must be amended. commissioner hogan, i would therefore urge you to continue to discuss this with your colleague, commissioner magrethe vestager. otherwise, we'll keep talking and nothing will get off the ground and no money will end up on the kitchen table.
thank you, chairman. i would like to share with my colleagues some good news from the netherlands. the dutch people will soon be able to vote in a referendum on the future of the association agreement with ukraine. we owe all of this to the citizens' initiative nopeil, which has gathered 500,000 signatures. so what d66, a political party, failed to do in 50 years, this citizens' initiative has done in 50 days, a referendum. so that deserves congratulations, and i'll keep you posted on the outcome.
madam president, the matter i want to raise is not strictly speaking on the agenda, but it relates to the debate on tuesday on, let us say, ‘dieselgate’. i understand that the conference of presidents had agreed to request the presence of vice-president timmermans for this debate. but we see on the schedule that commissioner bieńkowska, who is in charge of entrepreneurship, industry and the internal market, will be there. given the seriousness of the issue and the fact that it touches upon environmental policy, competition policy, governance and maybe other issues as well, and given that there are four committees involved in his issue, we would like to know why the commission has not met our request to send vice-president timmermans for the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, my first point would be on the situation in greece itself. as regards the whole package of the juncker proposals and the related agreement reached in the summer, it is absolutely necessary that we deliver. therefore, this fast-track procedure is the correct response to this specific situation. secondly, the most important requirement – which is to have money available to finalise the projects that can benefit from this proposal – is what is at stake this evening and in tomorrow’s vote. but there is another aspect i want to touch upon, which is the control that parliament wishes to exercise on the regional funds. the epp group has proposed that in this case for greece – and especially regarding these measures where we take away co-financing and for which we pay 100% of the money needed for projects – we have a say on the matter and special control. that is why the epp group proposed, in the debate at the committee on regional development, to have a special rapporteur, a permanent rapporteur, on greece. greece now is the only country where 100% european funding is necessary. as has just been said by the rapporteur, it is a sign of solidarity in europe. but on the other hand, we want to be sure that this money is going to the projects for which it is intended, and that the full control that applies to every other country in europe, according to the regulations, is applied in the greek situation. that is why it is a ‘yes’ from the epp for this fast-track proposal to use this measure for the money for 2014-2015; but also a ‘yes’ for a new role for parliament, with a specific rapporteur.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the budget. let's just let that taxpayer here always be the excluded third. now, if we look at a typical taxpayer's day in the netherlands, it starts at nine in the morning. until his coffee break at 11:00, he works for the irs. after his coffee break until his lunch, he works for the irs. after lunch he also works for the tax office for more than an hour, and it is not until ten minutes before three in the afternoon that he begins to work for himself. at least, it was until recently. but since we decided here to transfer billions, hundreds of billions to greece, this dutch taxpayer has lost seven extra minutes of working time for the taxes. so these days he works until about half past three for the tax office, and i hope that the commissioner, that the commission, if they are sipping their tea around that time, will take a moment to reflect on that. thank you, sir.
author.– madam president, due to the hacking by hacking team we now know that companies’ tools allow users to monitor and record a person’s every digital move. think about that. leaked internal documents demonstrate that these tools were marketed and sold to the governments of countries the human rights records of which have been criticised by the eu, including azerbaijan, bahrain, egypt, morocco and uzbekistan. we need eu rules to know the impact such eu-made systems have here at home and in the rest of the world, and to prevent exports to human rights violators. commissioner, we need clear answers. has hacking team violated eu sanctions against russia and sudan by selling systems that can be used to violate the human rights of journalists, political opponents and human rights activists, as the hacked and leaked documents suggest? more precisely i am referring to whether article 2(1) of regulation no 428/2009 should have applied. did security council resolution 1556 apply to hacking team and similar systems? the sanctions regime established under article 4 of regulation no 428/2009 includes an embargo on software and technology that can be used for civil or military purposes. i would like to know whether the commission can guarantee that member state authorities are implementing international obligations and doing so using the same yardstick. while this particular company may not survive this particular hack and this situation, the technology that they make is part of a wider industry and it continues and the market remains largely unregulated. transparency and accountability are needed with regard to the sales of invasive dual-use tools that endanger people. internal policies and self-regulation simply do not suffice. we need to ensure that our policies in foreign affairs and human rights are credible, and that they are not undermined by unregulated trade that happens at the same time.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). merkel's open invitation has not been withdrawn. on the contrary, the party is still to begin, because more than 600 000 asylum seekers have already entered europe illegally this year, and the only contribution that all these so-called syrian scientists have made so far is an increase in rapes and fights. fortunately, democratic opposition in the european union to the waste of freedom, security and future is growing by the day, as 66% of the dutch people think that the netherlands should not take in any more refugees. a majority of germans are worried about the huge influx. austrians are voting in large numbers for the fpö and therefore against mass immigration. mr president, enough is enough. only reception in the region. no more asylum seekers. our borders must be closed. it's the only way to stop this tsunami of refugees. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. i'll leave those comments about racism and xenophobia to you. do you have any idea where the netherlands is? i can tell you, it is not next to turkey and it is not on the mediterranean. if all these asylum seekers were looking for safety, they would have been safe in at least ten countries before they reported to the netherlands. because, you know, sir, they're not looking for security. they are looking for free housing, free money, and free health care, and i find it appalling that you knowingly inflict this enormous catastrophe on our own citizens.
the way we treat our refugees says something about our standards, our values, our society. i admire those countries that are trying with all their might to provide a clean, whole, safe haven for the refugees who are arriving in large numbers at our borders and at their stations. but i am furious when i see that there are countries that roll out barbed wire, that use tear gas as a means of controlling crowds, and that think they can feed people by throwing sandwiches over the fence. they are dehumanizing these refugees. if we leave that unchallenged, if we leave that unpunished, then we legitimize that action. that's what's happening here right now. all attempts to discuss the situation in hungary in a more than non-binding way, to attach consequences to the actions of viktor orban, to examine an article 7 are systematically blocked here. last night by the social democrats. mr president, if we are not honest and civil with each other, how can we deal properly with refugees? (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue-card answer. – at the moment i am the chief observer for the elections in tanzania, and i have been told very clearly that observing and monitoring are not the same thing as taking action. what hungary is doing on the border is not monitoring or observing: it is pushing people back and, in our law, that is forbidden.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, 11 million buyers of volkswagen diesel cars, of which 8 million are in europe, have been cheated, but many more have been exposed to severe air pollution due to the additional emissions of roughly 1 million tonnes of nox. we still do not know whether this is just the tip of the iceberg, but all signs point in that direction. obviously the companies involved are the first to blame. they deliberately manipulated the tests. they should not be rewarded for these illegal actions by again watering down the european standards or allowing further delay in their enforcement. so firstly, i expect the commission to now stop stalling the process and to have a new real-driving emissions (rde) test up and running within six months. i also expect the commission to change the surveillance system. the current national approach apparently is not working. therefore, a european independent oversight body must be established with the means to test cars itself. but there is another very important political question that has to be answered. were the commission and certain member state authorities aware of the cheating? the 2007 regulation explicitly prohibits the use of defeat devices, so their existence has been known for more than a decade. several reports, including a report from the commission’s own research body, the jrc, reported unexplainable differences between real emissions on the road and the laboratory test results. why then did the commission never initiate any investigations into this matter? i ask the commission here today: was the commission aware of the practices by the car industry? is the commission willing to disclose internal documents on this matter, including correspondence with certain member states, the jrc and the international council on clean transportation?
madam president, i think i could summarise the commissioner’s eight-minute speech as ‘we are on top of it, sleep well parliament, do not be afraid.’ that is how i summarise your speech, madam commissioner, and i really have a problem there because, to give just one simple example, when the us environmental protection agency was investigating, was there no contact at all between washington and brussels on what they were doing, and did your staff not know anything? that is really hard to believe, and you have to be more precise on the actions you are taking now because these remarks are way too general. so, first of all on the investigation, can you confirm that this investigation is not only into nox but also broader, taking in the other substances like co2 where you also see a growing gap between the test and reality? secondly, on european type approval, you said that we have done our analysis and now because of this scandal we are going to look at it again. why? where exactly are you going to look again? we need to know. thirdly, on the new rde tests: can you please deny that the commission is at this moment proposing a conformity factor of 1.6? while this is being discussed in brussels, i hope that you can say that a conformity factor of 1.6 in the rde tests for 2017 is not on the cards. finally, for ms grossetête who said, let us see whether we are ambitious: the standard of the eu is 80 mg per kilometre, in the us it is 43, in california 35. who is more ambitious now? (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is very simple. we impose the standards for our safety and public health. if the car industry cannot comply with these with diesel, then maybe they should not go into diesel. that is a discussion we need to have on the basis of the standards for our own safety. those standards we agreed upon – for example this 80 mg per kilometre, which is not very ambitious – were introduced only in 2007, when they already knew that new tests would be coming. the car industry has known this for eight years and yet it has not been doing anything apart from cheating with the software. that should be addressed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there is something very wrong with the european emission tests. in the context of the mid-term review of the 2011 transport white paper, we have already made this clear and put forward a number of suggestions for improvement. it does need to be better and more independent. but, mr president, when companies deliberately commit fraud, no politician can stand up to that. i think we should say that here today. the commissioner clearly used the word fraud. it is important that we get these real-world emissions tests as soon as possible. we, and especially our colleagues in the committee on the environment, will welcome all such proposals. but, mr president, we must not only blame this afternoon. we're not here to accuse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. solving problems and not unnecessarily damaging the car industry will be our mission in the coming period. then, perhaps, mr president, there is the question of the relationship with ttip. there is a lot of talk in ttip about testing cars. perhaps it will be helpful to take a close look at that chapter. the americans are testing the cars themselves. what just happened is from the environmental protection agency. we'll test the cars, but we'll pay for it. so i think both methods are unwise and can be improved. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, in dutch politics we have a saying: 'you have to sweep the stairs from the top'. so i very much agree with my colleague from hungary. the guilty must be punished. serious mistakes have been made here. let's not make this right. but the average worker at volkswagen, with dozens of factories in many european countries, must not be the victim of this.
president, "made in germany" is now a tainted concept and the underlying question is: do you think there's such a thing as fair business? how often have we seen corporations commit fraud and double standards? of course, the commissioner must now adjust the emission measurements quickly. but more than anything, beetle gate is a reminder to businesses to do business honestly. we are now seeing the fatal effect of fraud at volkswagen, which may even go bankrupt. and the whole automotive industry and german industry is now infected. even the government is tarnished because the president of lower saxony is on the supervisory board of volkswagen. "made in germany" must become "integrated and reliable" again, with a remote government that can make an independent judgment. the same should apply to 'made in holland' and 'made in europe'. so, if you think you are standing firm, be careful that you don't fall! that biblical wisdom, mr president, applies to all of us.
in europe, we've made tremendous progress in making cars cleaner. euro 6 is the cleanest bike ever. our air quality has already improved tremendously. we have always wanted to take account of the environment, employment and health. and now we've been betrayed. this time it's about the volkswagen and the software fraud. but what about the actual emissions of american and asian cars, among others? this too must be investigated. in europe, we have always wanted to know, before the current scandal, the real driving emissions. the commission has therefore been working on the proposal for a law on emissions in real driving conditions for some time. our suspicions about emissions measurements are now confirmed. the rde method should therefore be introduced as soon as possible and as a matter of urgency. measurement in real driving conditions, not phased introduction until november 2017 and the date of introduction of the euro 6c standard but via an accelerated route, actually already in 2016. so get out of here! out of the lab! new portable pem measurement systems make it possible to measure at the exhaust, allowing the eu to take its leading role back even before the introduction of the un wltp test procedure. we must do this ourselves in europe. measuring is knowing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. european control of the implementation in national test centres. we must prevent a trade war to the detriment of european car manufacturers. our car production is a worldwide symbol of craftsmanship and quality, as well as environmental quality. so, of course, feasibility is important, but speed is essential. all sectors must contribute to reducing emissions. it is about nitrogen and public health, and in addition to the ordinary cow, the sacred cow certainly cannot be missing.
mr president, on a point of order, we have had a very lengthy debate and you may have your doubts whether that is the most efficient way, but that is not the point. my problem is that during the debate we have tabled i do not know how many questions to the commission, and of course it was impossible for commissioner bieńkowska to answer all those questions. the fact is that in two weeks’ time we will vote on a resolution in this house on this same topic, and many of the questions that have been raised will be part of this resolution. is it possible to receive some kind of answer in writing for at least a few of the relevant questions that have been tabled, because they are really crucial for our resolution in two weeks’ time?
the libyan people are in a state of complete civil war with two parallel governments and two parallel parliaments. european commission, in the absence of the high representative, i would like to put three questions to you. i hope that i can get a written answer to these questions about the libyan situation, which is dangerous for europe too. is the continuing report of turkish arms deliveries to the libyan islamist camp true, and if so, has the eu addressed turkey on this? i have already heard about this from mr gahler. that's an interesting question. what is the eu's position on russian arms supplies to the libyan government in tobruk, which is also recognised by the eu? finally, what measures is the eu taking to counter the threats - and there have been repeated threats - from the islamic state in libya, the huge flow of migrants and thousands of jihadists?
i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur of the alde group, the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation. i really think we've worked together to get this result. this piece of legislation completes the circle as far as i am concerned and also regulates the emissions of medium combustion plants, as was the case before with the large combustion plants. the aim is to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen and particulate matter, which have a major impact on air quality and public health. after good cooperation between the council and the european parliament, a solid package is now on the table that is workable and guarantees a level playing field throughout europe. my commitment and that of our group was to reduce exceptions to the emission limit values as much as possible when there was no clear reason for doing so. - we did it. nevertheless, we believe that some exceptions are justified. as co-legislators, i think we should be aware of the practical implications, especially if the european union wants to encourage the use of biomass. the requirements for, for example, biomass combustion plants have therefore been adapted. we have also managed to avoid overlapping with other regulations, thus avoiding duplication of legislation with, for example, the directive on industrial emissions. there are other loopholes in the law. for example, an installation designed for emergency situations can really only be used during an emergency situation and not operate under normal conditions. we have managed to reduce the administrative burden and bureaucracy. rules should be applied unambiguously by a unambiguous licensing system. finally, it is good that member states want to learn from each other. in some member states, the business sector is already much more advanced. it is up to other member states to show that ambition too. i am pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. we are keeping room for innovation and across europe, work is being done on air quality by tackling the problem at its source.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all, on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, michèle rivasi, who unfortunately could not come tonight, i would like to thank the rapporteur for doing a very fair and good job, which has been really appreciated, on this important matter. we have been discussing source emissions quite a lot today. we were discussing cars this afternoon and now we are doing medium combustion plans. let us be fair to each other: it is always pretty difficult to get to legislation. every time we discuss air quality people say that what is most important is to have policies aimed at attacking the source but, as soon as we do that with a policy, there is a lot of demand for the extension of deadlines, a lot of loopholes, all kinds of exemptions, etcetera. that has been the case here too. in that sense, it is a pity that the council is not here because the council was the leader in creating loopholes in this legislation. i am very happy that parliament managed to delete a lot of these loopholes, but it was something of an exercise in damage control. so we will support this because it is an improvement. it will address 20% of the emissions under the national emissions ceiling. but, whenever we deal with these source policies, let us be vigilant. let us be sure that we are attacking the source because otherwise we will continue to have difficulty in reaching our air quality standards. in the end, that is in the interests of our citizens, and we have to treat all sources fairly. on this one we managed more or less, but it could have been better had the council cooperated a bit more. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– that is an easy one. i think we have been very industry-friendly on this one. at the moment we are paying billions for health care because of our polluted air: that is paid by everyone. i think you also agree with the ‘polluter pays’ principle. what we are trying to do here is to make sure that those who are polluting are the ones who pay and not have society in general paying for those who are polluting. i think that, even from your side, this is a policy you can welcome.
i thank the rapporteur for his efforts in this technical dossier, which is no less political. we are talking today about reducing the emissions of certain air pollutants by means of large combustion plants, gas turbines, emergency generators, mobile power systems on islands, in the countryside, in agriculture and in workplaces, matters which concern many people. in europe, we have made great progress in improving air quality in some areas, but that same air quality is still below the norm in some parts of the eu. good legislation, that's good source policy on air quality, good for public health. that is why we cannot leave unnecessary back doors open in this proposal while we want to ensure workability and feasibility for stakeholders. it is therefore important that the european commission assesses within a reasonable timeframe whether the emission limit values need to be amended in the light of the new technologies. the best technologies must be considered. we cannot continue to allow higher emission limits if in the future air purification technology is rapidly improving and becoming more affordable. that's important too. that innovation is moving fast. but that ambition does not relieve us of the obligation to think about feasibility, practicality, economic impact and employment. where there is a threat of large-scale redundancies and the cessation of economic activity, tailor-made solutions must be provided, including by us in europe. our environmental ambition, and i am clearly in favour of it, must not be reduced to blind fanaticism, indiscriminate. that is why there was broad support from many groups in the committee on the environment for some exceptions in places where the air quality is already good.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i note with regret that there is no one to address here. i think it is a very important debate on syria because the war in syria must be stopped – and our group has been calling for more eu leadership for years. we are paying a very high price for the lack of that. not only is it unacceptable how many people continue to be killed – now with the help of russian bombers – but it is equally unacceptable how little unity and leadership we have seen from the eu side. the high representative should strive to find a common eu position and develop a comprehensive plan. our group wishes to see a political solution, and building on local ceasefires and ending the air raids on civilians should stop the bloodshed. no-fly zones are a part of ensuring that. i find it unacceptable that russia and saudi arabia and now the us are taking diplomatic initiatives and that we are absent. russia and saudi arabia are certainly no honest brokers, but can we be surprised that the vacuum we left was filled by others? while there are no simple solutions, there are certainties we cannot ignore. the needs of the millions of people on the run from assad’s bombs and isis brutalities far exceed the funds available. we call on you to organise a major donor conference, which should contribute to much more serious commitment to refugees in the middle east and to the countries hosting them. also, military success often leads to an increase in refugee numbers. it is crucial to ensure there is anticipation and coordination: we need a comprehensive eu plan to end the war in syria now.
after years of hopeless fighting, russia and syria have now also taken up arms against isis. this could be the decisive factor in the destruction of this enemy of mankind. but is the war in syria an eu problem, because it is bringing hundreds of thousands of migrants into the eu? they come here to escape the war? no, absolutely not, because syrian refugees have been living safely in turkey, jordan or lebanon for years. the problem is free money, free health care and free housing in germany and other eu member states. the problem is that the eu does not close its internal and external borders. on this day, which is the anniversary of the battle of lepanto, we are firmly opposed to the abolition of the visa requirement for turkey. it is opening the door to a much greater influx of unwanted economic migrants and the islamization of the eu. the commission should follow the example of prime minister orbán, who knows how to deal with this invasion. we need barbed wire and the guarding of our national borders to prevent european countries from being destroyed by the destructive urge of islam.
the military power deployment of russia and iran on the syrian battlefield is evident. the legitimacy for this is provided by bashar al-assad's reign of terror. russia and iran have managed to impose their geopolitical game, including on the west. however, the objectives of moscow and tehran go far beyond the syrian battlefield. the neighbouring countries are experiencing this directly. the eu should therefore, for its own security interests alone, step up defence cooperation with the state of israel. the destabilising terrorist activities of the iranian revolutionary guard on the golan heights - i have seen it myself - speak for themselves here. that's the flip side of the bad deal, the bad nuclear deal with the islamic republic of iran: western side of self-deception. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. i'm well informed about what israel is doing in the region. it is the only stable country left in the region at the moment and jordan is actually hoping for israel. in short, the israelis have a lot of diplomatic contacts and they are not sitting idly by. the point is: where do we start and where do we try to maintain stability and then expand further? and what i see here in this parliament is that we focus on israel as if israel is the problem. no, the problems lie elsewhere and are not mentioned here, unfortunately.
mr president, a point of order as well. yesterday we discussed publicly, for more than three hours, the emission measurements of the automotive industry – better known as ‘dieselgate’ – while at the same time in brussels the so-called technical committee for motor vehicles met. that is a comitology committee of national experts chaired by the commission. since a total lack of transparency is a crucial element in the current car crisis, i believe that this house ... (the president interrupted the speaker)this is a point of order. i do believe that this house and the european public have the right to know the position of the commission and the national governments in this field. so my request to you is: could you please ask for the full minutes – not the summary notes – including the underlying documents of this meeting?
mr president, you must explain to me what we are doing. what's going on here is completely impossible. we were refused to vote on the 2017 agenda because there were no amendments. what's going on now? there are explanations of vote on a vote that was not allowed to take place. mr president, this is totally undemocratic. i had not yet finished, mr president. i'd appreciate it if you'd listen to my argument. explanations of vote are given here on a vote which was not allowed to take place. that's not democratic. you must put it on the agenda of the conference of group chairmen that we should simply be able to vote on that timetable. because if there are no amendments on that agenda, we should simply be able to vote on that agenda. this is so not right. this is complete nonsense. you must raise this at the conference of group chairmen.
in writing. ‒ i support tunisia’s wish to cooperate with the eu in the fields of research and education. however, i do not support the participation of tunisia in the missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy (csdp). as the latter is not explicitly excluded from the council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support tunisia’s wish to cooperate with the eu in the fields of research and education. however, i do not support the participation of tunisia in the missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy (csdp). as the latter is not expressly excluded from the council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support tunisia’s wish to cooperate with the eu in the fields of research and education. however, i do not support the participation of tunisia in the missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy (csdp). as the latter is not explicitly excluded from the council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement, i abstained.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the the question, of course, is: does the financial sector work in the best interests of the client? of course, that has not been the case in recent years. profit and self-interest were paramount. regulators, legislators and regulators did not join in. joris luyendijk, columnist for the guardian, compared the financial sector to a full plane with an empty cockpit. it wasn't sent, and it certainly wasn't in the best interest of the client. the socialists and democrats see the capital markets union as an opportunity. don't get me wrong about that. you may have heard my colleague, roberto gualtieri. it's an opportunity. and it is certainly possible to achieve more diversity where we see that the european sector is very much focused on banks, while capital markets can be better developed. i think the comparison between the us and the eu is flawed. we are a landscape dominated by banks, but there is certainly more diversity possible. the action plan on the capital markets union is an opportunity. it is also an opportunity to address the lingering problems in europe. that is why it is good that commissioner katainen is here, because it is certainly in the european interest that there should be more investment opportunities, that money should be converted into investment. we want a joint mission, and that means investors and smes finding each other again. this also means less paperwork for smes. these are opportunities, but the burden of proof is on the commission, because the priority of the customer's interest has not been taken for granted and will not be. the commission must show that the proposals are working for the real economy, for ordinary people and small businesses. it must show that it contributes to the real economy and does not harm it. the commission's burden of proof also involves very clear choices. the commission must demonstrate that securitisation works and take a stand against synthetic securitisation. the us junk mortgages have shown that financial products without underlying value do not contribute to the real economy but carry significant risks. the commission must also take a stand against unfavourable tax regimes which favour capital and disadvantage equity, because it is also a question of companies having sufficient buffers and building up capital, and taxation is not designed to do that. finally, the commission must also opt for the completion of the banking union. this remains very important in europe. the deadly embrace between governments and banks must be broken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, mr president, the commission must choose service, because that must be the key word in the capital markets union. financial institutions must return to serving the real economy and putting the interests of the customer first. the commission must therefore be involved in this and let juncker and his team prove that they are the right team to get this right.
i 'm a supporter of a football club whose motto is: "not words but deeds". i am glad that this proposal for a capital markets union is an action plan. i therefore hope that you will make an effort to put these actions into practice as soon as possible. we must be clear about what we are doing, which is to provide an alternative for companies to finance themselves, so that they are not dependent on banks alone. we must also look at how this works in practice. we must ensure that we do not rush into new regulations and we must ensure that we also dare to challenge existing regulations and all the level 2 measures still in the pipeline and see if they contribute to this. if i may give one example: the securitisation in question. if it were the case that a pension fund or any other investor had to check 57 criteria before being allowed to use the securitisation, i think there would be little enthusiasm for it and we would be putting the cart before the horse. we certainly should not, for every step in the right direction is one.
the objectives of the capital markets union are sympathetic. more investment is good for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the engine of our economy. and also make the european financial system more stable, fine, do it. i have serious doubts, however, about two of the means which the commission intends to use. firstly, the commissioner wants to see private european pensions. that's a route i don't want. i think that the member states are in the lead when it comes to pensions. secondly, securitisation is being revived. i'm very surprised. these were the financial products that caused, in a way, the biggest financial crisis since the great depression. so going that route seems very unwise to me. we need a strong economy, not a mess economy. finally, mr president, the best means of promoting investment are coherent legislation, good legal protection and enforcement and less bureaucracy. i support the commission on these points.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i recently tried to make a purchase on a website from another member state with a dutch credit card and the payment was refused because i did not use a credit card from the country of that website. not only when buying products, but also when paying for services online, this happens far too often and is of course terribly annoying. so i am hopeful that, partly on the basis of article 64 of this directive on payment services, these kinds of annoying things will now be a thing of the past. the payment services directive is intended to improve access to payment services and reduce costs and risks for consumers. this is perfectly in line with the objectives of the digital single market for which the commission will shortly be proposing. i am therefore also surprised that, in the whole story of the digital single market, there is not a single reference in the owninitiative report to payment services. i think it is very good that we are also paying special attention to this aspect in the digital single market and i call on all colleagues to look at this urgently. i would like to end by congratulating mr tajani and all the shadow rapporteurs on their excellent work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. i think that the essence of today's commemoration is that we should not stumble twice over the same stone. of course, we must reflect on the catastrophe of five years ago and its great consequences. i hope that we, in particular, will learn from it, even after five years. i would like to make two points in paragraph 4 of our resolution, in which we highlight the causes of this disaster. firstly, the poor implementation of european legislation, especially at member state level, and secondly, very poor inspection or even the absence of proper inspection. i have to say frankly that, one day after the debate on the volkswagen fraud, this is a very cynical statement, because we are coming to the same conclusion there too: extremely poor implementation of legislation by member states and lack of inspection. since the previous speakers have already laid so much emphasis on the 'polluter pays' principle, i would like to emphasize paragraph 17 in which we are talking about a european commission proposal for a law to introduce environmental inspections at eu level, something we have already agreed to in the seventh environment action programme. so i would like to call on the commission to really get on with it. it can't be too difficult because there's a proposal on the table. commissioner potočnik has worked hard on this in the past. it is all ready, so i think we should just go around it and send it to the council and parliament.
author. the conflict in the central african republic is one of the biggest humanitarian crises right now, along with syria and sudan, but it gets a lot less attention in the central african republic. it seems forgotten. the rebels in the central african republic are responsible for executions, rapes, kidnappings and mass looting. 2.7 million people, almost half the population, are in need of aid, but aid agencies, such as the red cross, cannot even provide their services in the capital bangui. patients have to walk to the hospital. yesterday, a blue helmets officer was killed in a gun battle with rebels. these rebel armies pay their people with the trade in diamonds and hardwood. there is a temporary halt to the diamond trade, but the ban is being lifted and stocks are building. as soon as diamonds can be traded officially again, these diamonds will be on the market. the people will not benefit from that. in fact, it's funding rebels again. european companies are also buying this hardwood and these diamonds from these rebels. amnesty international has just done a major study on this. there are belgian companies doing business there. i call on european companies to stop this now, because the money has to go to the rebels or the conflict will never end.
author.– madam president, this debate on this resolution is a result of our commitment to, and our friendship with, the thai people. because of this friendship and commitment there can be only one priority for the eu with regard to thailand and that is for thailand to return as soon as possible to a democratic society with an elected civil and representative government. we therefore urge the thai authorities not only to stick to the presented timeline for a new constitution, with elections in mid-2017, but also to present a constitution that is based on democracy, equality, freedom and fundamental rights. this is something we are concerned about because, if a constitution is to be future-proof, the process needs to be inclusive. it needs to be transparent, and people need to have the opportunity to participate. we have seen increasingly worrying reports of deteriorating human rights in thailand. we call on the thai authorities to lift all measures that restrict freedom of assembly and freedom of speech, and to allow for the genuine political involvement of all citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i quote: "expresses its full sympathy with the women and children who have survived the blind terrorism of boko haram". this sentence immediately brings to mind hassan bitrus, a four-year-old from northern nigeria. last november he walked out of the church with a bible in his hand. boko haram extremists arrested him, took his bible, and threw it into a fire. hassan tried to pull his bible out of the fire with a stick. a boko haram terrorist kicked him in the head, and he went up in flames. boko haram left him for dead. thank god hassan bitrus was alive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not so bad as it was in the past.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr pittella, you spoke about iran world champion of state terrorism that we so badly need in syria. in syria, the flames are already spreading through the islamic republic of iran. i think that is a completely wrong geopolitical choice and also an immoral choice.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i understand that the future of the european union will be decided in a dance contest and i cannot wait to see mr juncker taking mr cameron in his arms, but i would just like to underline that the future of europe is decided in an open, transparent and public debate in a democratic process and not in backroom deals. the council draft conclusions open with a very encouraging sentence saying that tackling the migration and refugee crisis is a common obligation which requires a comprehensive strategy and a determined effort over time in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility. and i thought, yes, this is a radical change of strategy in the council: ‘wir schaffen das’. unfortunately, the determination of the council ends after the first sentence. the decision on the 160 000 was already inadequate and everybody knew it, and many more people will come our way. but the member states have not even properly delivered on their previous pledges, never mind for additional refugees, and the only response of the council seems to be: let’s keep our eyes closed and maybe the problem will go away. but citizens are concerned, not just members of parliament. i see the ‘remain’ or ‘leave’ campaign has already started in this room. but citizens – i can see that the presidency of the council is on the phone to a citizen right now – are concerned. they see the images of large numbers of refugees coming this way. they also see refugee centres being established in their neighbourhoods, and they are anxious. but the majority of european citizens, i am convinced, want to welcome refugees and they want europe to show solidarity. but they also want to know that europe is able to cope with the situation. they want to see leadership, but instead the government leaders are dithering and hesitating and ducking the issue and coming up with half-hearted and inadequate solutions. how can you expect citizens to be confident that europe can handle the situation if government leaders themselves do not show that they are up to the job? the commission and parliament have put forward proposals repeatedly for a comprehensive strategy, but the council is silent. but we urgently need a comprehensive policy here that includes legal avenues for migration, a real eu asylum policy with a permanent distribution key and a real eu border control system. on the talks with turkey, i think that is very welcome and it is essential. but i wonder: the commission, and in particular the council, are making promises about financial support without actually specifying where the money will come from. earlier promises of funds, as mr juncker just set out, have not been delivered upon, so how can you promise more money to a country if you have not even delivered on your earlier promises? it is very clear that the current financial framework does not allow for these kinds of exercises. and besides, i would like to echo the words of other speakers who ask themselves: how can we be sure that the human rights of refugees will be guaranteed in turkey? the council draft conclusions also mention the aim of developing safe and sustainable reception capacities in the affected regions and providing lasting prospects for refugees. i was a little mystified by that, because i wonder exactly what ‘lasting prospects’ means when you are in a refugee camp. i hope for your sake that refugees have the same notion of ‘lasting prospects’. reception in the region and cooperation with third countries mainly means outsourcing our problems, and i think it is a bit bitter that we applaud the nobel peace prize laureate, tunisia, and at the same time expect them to solve our problems and receive the people we turn away. finally, the draft conclusions do not remotely constitute an answer to the current situation, so the alde group expects you to go back, do your homework and come up with a realistic and comprehensive strategy, so that we can truly say to european citizens: ‘wir schaffen das’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i am not really sure i understand the question correctly, but i think there are comprehensive plans on the table. parliament has expressed itself repeatedly; the commission has expressed itself repeatedly. so i think we do have an answer. now everything depends on delivery, and for that we rely on the council and on the member states. it cannot be done only by the commission and parliament. that is why we make this appeal to the council and the member states.
i would like to say to mr weber, who has just been so outspoken against the populists: vox populi, vox deorum. it is the vox populi, vox deorum. i'm proud to speak with the voice of the people. the next council of ministers will be discussing the migration crisis at length. the proposal before us is giving in to the blackmail of turkey. turkey must never become a member of the eu and must never be exempted from the visa requirement. the dictator erdoğan was greeted as a hero by thousands of turks in strasbourg last week. it is clear that the loyalty of the turks in europe is not to their host country but to the sultan of ankara, who bombs kurdish turks, supports isis and considers jews and christians to be his great enemies. this country can't be trusted. if the eu gives in to blackmail and turkey gives money to refugees, but at the same time opens the door to the eu, within a few years we will be flooded by millions of migrants from afghanistan, pakistan and syria. they are nationalized as turks and are still entering the european union. the commission - and i agree with mr juncker - must put an end to the accession negotiations with turkey and the abolition of the visa requirement. let the council speak out clearly against islamic violence, both from turkey and from islamic organizations, and stop funding it. finally, i would draw attention to the relentless terror of hamas against the jewish people and to the insidious attacks by palestinians against innocent jewish citizens. let the council also make a clear statement against this.
it is good that the eu and turkey are continuing to talk this week about a joint approach to the refugee issue. the european union must not allow itself to be held hostage by president erdoğan's demand that membership conditions be relaxed in exchange for turkish cooperation. that would be an unfair reward for the democratic setback in the country. the eu must be able to remain critical when it comes to human rights and press freedom. but if we are to get a good deal with ankara, the eu must also have something to offer that actually lifts the burden on turkey. ankara rightly calls for more financial support. it is not enough, however, to offer only resources which were already allocated to the country in the context of the accession negotiations. what, then, besides the financial support? regulate the inflow by setting up registration centres on turkish territory. we are helping turkey to share the burden fairly, but we are also putting smugglers out of the way, we are preventing even more dramatic situations at sea and we can save a lot of money by already displacing refugees and economic migrants outside the eu. finally, i would like to warn president juncker: please be careful about linking membership negotiations and a dialogue on migration. these are really two separate processes.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur mr pargneaux for drafting this own-initiative report, which also pays good attention to the transport sector, which is also still one of the sectors emitting the most co2 – not only nox if we are discussing a volkswagen, but that is another discussion. i also think that it is very important that in this own-initiative report we are addressing very clearly the aviation and maritime sector, and directly related to that i have a question for the commissioner, because next week in bonn there will be negotiations on the new text that has been published. in that text there is no mention at all of the international maritime and aviation sector, which is something that needs to be corrected and i am counting on you, commissioner, to correct that in the negotiations in bonn or later on in paris. another thing i like very much in this report is the linking of the revenues to the green climate fund, and that brings another question for the commissioner. we know that the mandate for climate financing will be determined by the ecofin council in november. how can we make sure that ecofin will deliver predictable and additional financing, because that is key and is also expected by the developing countries? that is something i think this parliament report gives good suggestions for, so i would recommend that you also let that be picked up by ecofin in november. another very important point is to stress the five-year commitment period, which is also in this parliament report; but i have not heard the commission very clearly endorsing that. it would be good to hear that for europe, too, it is indeed important to move to five-year commitment periods for the longer term because we all know now that we will not achieve the 2 degrees in paris. you have also said this in interviews. so then it becomes very important that there will be reviews very quickly so that the ambition level can be ratcheted up, and i think a five-year commitment period is important and that europe, for example, does not restrict itself only to 2030. these are some of the issues; there are many more in the report and they are very welcome too. one final point on the long-term target for 2050 – phasing out carbon emissions – mainly to my ppe colleagues. this has been parliament’s standpoint for two years now. it would be a bad signal if now we were suddenly to change our position just a couple of weeks before paris.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i think we all know the immense importance of the climate summit in paris – even the ecr, mr duncan – and it is absolutely crucial that we reach a very ambitious, legally-binding, comprehensive agreement there, an agreement that goes beyond the indcs that are being collected now – because we all know that, if we add them up, we will never stay below the 2 degrees centigrade, as the commissioner has already said. one of the crucial elements, again, will be international climate finance, and it will maybe be the sole case that can make or break the agreement in paris. europe could be the broker of such a deal, but unfortunately, in the council mandate for paris, the climate commitments after 2020 are missing. apparently there was no agreement yet, when the climate ministers came together in september, among the ministers of finance for this very crucial finance. in our own parliament’s resolution, we do mention it. we set aside a number of allowances from the emissions trading scheme (ets) to create a fund, an eu international climate action reserve that will raise revenues in a fair way and will create a fund independent of national governments. i think that is a crucial element of our resolution. as mentioned before, in november the ecofin council will come together, and i urge our ministers of finance to seriously look into the suggestion made in this parliament’s resolution. just like the others, i would like to urge the commissioner to be present there and to make sure that ecofin copies that suggestion.
i would like to draw attention to the large and damaging role played by the business lobby in the creation of the climate agreement at the end of this year. the importance of this role was painfully clear to me when i heard that aviation and shipping were removed from the latest draft climate agreement, when these sectors together account for as much as 8 percent of co2 emissions. and that share is only going to grow. there are more examples of this kind. the same draft shows that we do not want to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels any longer. the fossil fuel industry is engaged in a massive greenwashing campaign to distract attention from its large contribution to global warming. and then there are the official sponsors of the climate conference: renault-nissan, coca cola, gdf suez, avril, all of which are major polluters. it seems that some parties do not realize that the situation is very serious. these types of companies are like the orchestra on the titanic that keeps playing to make extra money before closing time. more power: they're turning a few extra strokes of the rudder towards the iceberg because they think they'll make more money if the ship is perpendicular to the setting sun. it's absurd and totally irresponsible. the cop 21 conference is open to all. so unfortunately it is not possible to keep all lobbyists out of the way when legislation is being made, as the world health organisation does with the tobacco industry. let us insist very strongly that the work be done with full transparency and that equal attention be given to civil society organisations and citizens as to the business lobby. (the president cut the speaker off)
soon thousands of people will be flying business class to paris to talk about the climate over a glass of champagne. mr eickhout will be with us again, of course. in the end we will have to see that this is going to be another fiasco, just like in copenhagen. that is not so difficult to predict, because everything the eu does is a fiasco. whether we're talking about the greek crisis or the refugee crisis, it's going to be a fiasco. but - and that is good news for mr eickhout - there is also something the eu is good at, namely burning tax euros at a tremendous rate. so i ask you: stop this pointless mission. stop this climate summit and return the money to its rightful owner: the people who pay taxes.
i hope that the paris climate agreement will be reached, but we are far from there. we are talking here in parliament today about our ambitions in relation to this agreement. sustainability is the new buzzword in politics, but also in business. it's hot. that is precisely what we should be doing if we are to achieve real results in paris. we need to keep everyone on board. as politicians, we need to start recognising that there is no contradiction between an ambitious climate agreement and a viable climate for our businesses. it's not "either or" but "and and". the pope has also called for this. let us, as politicians, set the example. our own european business is asking for an agreement. our companies have to work on this and they don't know where they stand. all sectors must be involved in achieving the objectives we have set, or we will not get there. we must not let the jobs and the economy of today and of our children disappear from europe. now, this is a great opportunity to... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing.– to maintain a liveable earth we have to halt climate change now. as one of the main culprits of climate change, europe carries a great responsibility in achieving global binding agreements on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. regrettably, the report ‘towards a new international climate agreement’ only contains one single paragraph on agriculture, whose impact on climate change cannot be overstated enough. especially, the negative impact of meat production on climate change persists, and prospects for the future are grim. the world population is estimated to reach 9.6 billion by 2050. diets are predicted to become more affluent, containing more meat and dairy products. this shift towards unsustainable diets will entail a tremendous, if not impossible burden on the planet’s resources. there is a clear link between livestock farming and global warming. meat and dairy production are responsible for at least 14% of all our greenhouse gas emissions. it would be negligent to not tackle this issue when fighting climate change – especially when we realise that people and animals in the poorer areas of the world will be affected first and the worst, owing to extreme weather conditions due to climate change.
madam president, given the importance of transparency and the great interests that are at stake, i should like to move the following amendment after paragraph 80: ‘points out that lobby activities before and during the cop 21 negotiations can have influence on the outcomes of the negotiations; stresses therefore that such activities should be transparent, clearly indicated in the unfccc daily agenda of the cop 21 and that the conference should allow equitable access to all relevant stakeholders’.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i agree with the previous speaker’s last statement, that we quickly need a proper solution in compliance with the court ruling. however, i disagree with his statement that it is the court which is to blame, for upholding the law. that is actually what courts do in a liberal democracy, and i am grateful that at least the court did it, because the real problem was known for many years. we have known for more than 10 years that the safeguards were not adequate, that compliance was weak if not absent, and that we were applying double standards. we apply different standards to our american friends than we apply to other countries. fortunately, the court has stopped this, and now we have to find a solution. we also need to study the implications for other policies and, in particular, transatlantic data flows. that would include the passenger name records agreement, the terrorist finance tracking programme agreement, the umbrella agreement and possibly also public procurement arrangements. i think national governments should also check if their national surveillance laws actually meet the standards set by the court. i would like to remind people that privacy and data protection – contrary to what i believe mr zuckerberg once said – is not a social convention. it is actually a legal right on a par with the right to free speech, the right to life, a ban on torture and all the other fundamental rights. it is a legal right, mr kirkhope. it is not something the court invented: it is actually in the treaties. we do not want a fence around the european internet. we want transatlantic data flows, but it takes two to tango – as mr juncker said in the previous debate – so that means our us counterparts will also have to move. finally, this is also a governance issue. this is very much about the quality of legislation and about enforcement. therefore i would also call on the vice-president responsible for better law-making to look at it from that perspective.
if anything has been shown in this debate and in previous sham, it is that tackling anti-semitism and defending freedom of expression in the european union is in very bad hands. i think that no one here will deny that the rise of anti-semitism is a problem that must be tackled very hard by the member states. but to do that, you would have to first of all understand that the ideological background of islam is the main trigger of today's anti-semitism. as long as the european union continues to import this intolerance, anti-semitism will not decrease. the growing trend to dismiss citizens' justified fears about the increasing islamization of their country as racism, hate speech or islamophobia is a danger to freedom of expression. as easily as justified fear is dismissed as irrational and unfounded, so easily is criticism equated with hatred, while the real hatred is preached in the thousands of mosques. my party, the party for freedom, therefore has no need for any more plans by the european commission to tackle anyone who holds a politically incorrect view.
rapporteur.– mr president, the debate today on the tools and services that can be used for capital punishment reminds us once again that trade policy is an integral part of the eu’s foreign policy. it is vital that we continue to develop values-based trade policies, as is very much the theme of the new trade policy of the commission. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the collegial cooperation during which we focussed on updates needed to close the loopholes in the current eu regime. the anti–torture regulation combines prohibitions of goods on the one hand with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods on the other hand. it governs a ban on trade in so–called single-use torture and execution items and related technical assistance under annex 2. but it also looks at an authorisation system for multi—purpose items that could be misused for torture and executions: for example, lethal injections. we see this in annex 3. the overhaul of the existing eu controls of trade in torture instruments has been long overdue. in this update we must ensure a correct mix of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures. the absence of a multilateral export controls regime does complicate this task. still, we seek coherence of the eu’s export controls, including military, dual use, firearms and torture goods lists, without subjecting items to duplicate controls and making things more complicated. the commission proposes to strengthen the controls of torture goods to include certain medical substances and to broaden the scope to include brokering. i support this kind of approach of necessary and proportionate controls without creating unnecessary burdens for legitimate trade. in this regard it is also key that we seek a more level playing field in europe. at the same time as we act now, our policies and systems should be future–proof and flexible, so as to be able to adjust to changing technologies or changing realities elsewhere in the world. specific item lists can provide clarity for exporters and importers to make it easier for them to comply. we have also made sure that it is very clear and that there is no doubt about legitimate access to medicines and pharmaceuticals which, of course, for the eu is an important market, and it must not be hindered by measures to curb the abuse of lethal injection. while we observe that foreign trade transactions are becoming more and more complex, we have to look for an effective set of enforcement measures, and this should also include the marketing and financial services that do take place and are related to this industry. we have asked for reporting and exchange of information between member states via a secure encrypted system, so that rejected licences and other notifications or important information can be shared and can help states coordinate. as the commission can more flexibly adapt the regulations and the items that are at stake, we do ask, as a parliament, to be duly informed and involved. finally, we look to industry to take its own responsibility to make sure that the eu does not trade, broker, transfer or otherwise get involved with goods or services that are used for the death penalty or torture. i believe – and i think all of our colleagues believe – that in this text we put forward concrete proposals for improvement in this file, all with the goal to make sure that the eu acts as a values–based global player and that this specific, quite technical, aspect of trade is upgraded and implemented in a way that is both flexible and effective.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues. on a slightly lighter note, i thought it was a pleasure – and a bit of a relief – to hear that we can actually talk about trade and agree from one side of the house to the other side of the house, and even see that trade policies can advance values directly, so i note that with a smile. commissioner, thank you for your very detailed reply to the text that we have worked on together in this house. i note many points of overlap – if not literally, then at least in spirit – and that is a reason for optimism. i think that it has been well established by everyone who spoke that we share the goal of ending the death penalty and torture, and this is one way to contribute to that. it is not as widely shared a goal in this house. unfortunately, it is not entirely unanimously shared, but at least by a large majority. on the implementation: yes, of course measures must be feasible and even agile. that is our goal too, but i think we are being both ambitious and realistic, as my colleague loones also said. it has been 10 years since this regulation has been updated, so we feel very strongly that what we do now has to be future—proof and solid and should be able to last for quite a while, so what we do now we must do well and make it a robust mechanism that deals with all the loose ends. i also want to end by saying thank you to civil society and human rights organisations that have been very involved in helping us to push for these much—needed reforms. i think this highlights the importance of civil society also for us here in the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mrs merkel, chancellor of the european union, visited the sultan of turkey last week. they have sealed the fate of the member states. turkey must join the eu as soon as possible in exchange for curbing the flow of illegal migrants. it shows the bankruptcy of democracy. germany decides for all member states. the eu is dissolving itself and being incorporated into the new ottoman empire. the external borders cannot be made 100% watertight, but the restoration of the internal borders is out of the question. the european elite would rather surrender to the beast of ankara. human rights no longer matter when erdoğan bombs his own people, collaborates with islamic state, abolishes democracy in turkey and suppresses freedom of expression with violence. it was not until 1913 that the turks were finally driven out of the balkans and the killing and raping of the christian population ceased. this eu is bringing the religious wars back to europe. everywhere islam is, children are sold as brides, women are second-rate commodities, and dissenters are tortured and killed. when merkel says that islam belongs to europe, she is denying all the christian and humanist values of the west. already she is complicit in the crimes in and around the shelters. rape, violence against christians, it's happening on a massive scale and it's going to happen in every city, in every village. that 's islam: conquest of the west. hence my appeal: stop the invasion, close the internal borders and never let turkey join the european union.
this debate is a mirror to ourselves. if we are all unable to see the human being in the crowd, we will lose the european values to which we have always referred. we can't let that happen. but to be able to show mercy to those people who need us and need protection, and to be able to show solidarity with the countries that are hosting the most refugees, you also have to have the courage to be very, very clear. and clarity is also being honest with someone, saying, "you don't need our protection", and then arranging a dignified return. clarity is also saying: "yes, people, this is going to cost effort and money" and not like the member states do: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the solidarity and humanity that we hear in most of this house is under pressure if we are unable to guard our borders. i am therefore pleased that the president of the commission is saying that he will come forward with a proposal for a european coastguard soon. that is why i welcome all the cooperation with neighbouring countries, including financial cooperation, although i doubt whether, for example, the accession process of turkey should be linked to the debate on refugees. i don't think it was. but let us now get down to business, the elements are there and let us do it in all honesty and in all clarity.
mr president, let me use this opportunity to thank the european commission for its commitment to find practical solutions to this huge challenge we are all facing. i welcome the action plan that was developed jointly with turkey, as turkey and the eu need each other to share the burden of providing safe havens for so many people fleeing war. so we urgently need to discuss further about financial support, resettlement, the effective return of economic migrants and fighting smugglers. i nevertheless do reject the linkage of cooperation on refugees to the eu accession process, as these issues are unrelated. postponing the progress report on turkey without any explanation gives the impression that the eu is avoiding being critical on the human rights situation ahead of important elections. that gives a totally wrong signal. the eu should not stop expressing its concerns on the freedom of the press or the situation of the kurdish minority.
rapporteur.– madam president, do not worry, i am not going to give a big speech, but just to ask for the final vote to be postponed, and the file referred back to committee so that we can start the trilogue and finish in a first reading agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is not ‘business as usual’, because the vice-president of the commission has achieved one thing that is pretty revolutionary, and that is keeping the work programme confidential until today. that is a real achievement for which i congratulate him. so i have not really had time to read it in great detail, but going through it i note a lot of very positive things for which the vice-president will get the support of my group. these are the border and coastguard proposal and the proposal to revitalise the ‘blue card’ in the chapter on migration and asylum. i also note the proposal on the work-life balance. i suppose that is new eurospeak for maternity leave, which will at least be in there. i also note a proposal for the external representation of the euro, the common currency. we all welcome that, and i am sure there is a lot more in there that the vice-president will get our support for. there are also a couple of things missing, and a couple of question marks. regarding the security and counter—terrorism chapter, one of the things that we have urgently needed for many years – and which has been requested by this house – is a thorough, detailed evaluation of security and counter—terrorism measures already in place and their effectiveness. that is part of better law-making. another thing we need – i do not know if it is in there – is a reference to somehow unblocking the horizontal anti-discrimination directive and the transparency regulation. i will come back to that. then there is something that this house has been calling for – and i will have the honour and pleasure to elaborate on this – a mechanism for the enforcement of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democratic governance. finally, on the digital agenda, i very much welcome the vice-president’s words but wonder how i should then interpret the words of mr oettinger, who said that instead of creating an open worldwide web we are going to put a fence around the european cloud and the european internet. i hope the vice-president does not share his views. one final remark, because we are talking a lot about political topics here: better law—making is not about the outcome of political debates, it is about the process itself. there the commission could and should do a lot more. i have already mentioned transparency. we need to make some leaps forward because we are still in the era of diplomats and civil servants meeting behind closed doors. we also need to look at enforcement. i only need to mention ‘safe harbour’ and ‘dieselgate’. we also need to look at the quality of legislation and look at ourselves in a more critical manner, because i am sick and tired of passing legislation that we know is legally unsound and will end up before the european court of justice sooner or later. there is a whole lot more that can be said about the process, but i would like to see more emphasis on the process, because the final outcome is a matter of political choice, political preference. there are no objective criteria, but how we manage the process is something that we all share in.
we are talking today about the budget, about the money that brussels is taking from the citizens. while the tax cuts are pouring in, more money is needed. all those billions have not bought a solution to the financial crisis, nor have they found a solution to the migration crisis. but critics of this are threatened with the withdrawal of subsidies. that is undemocratic and irresponsible and shows the immaturity of this parliament. where'd all that money go? some of them are to an airport in spain where no one has ever landed, or to a sound screen in poland where no one lives. and the money isn't being spent according to the rules. the court of auditors shall determine this again each year. in short, budgets are being spent inefficiently and incorrectly and money will not solve the asylum crisis either. my party will therefore vote against these proposals and call for a massive budget cut. let the eu stop this useless and costly waste.
the hatred and murderous spirit of palestinians against the jewish people has erupted again in recent weeks. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this wave of murderous zeal has nothing to do with the disputed territories, nothing to do with settlement policy and nothing to do with the glorious role of the temple mount for the jewish people. the prime minister rightly pointed to the evil ideology of the terrorist muslim brotherhood and the mufti of jerusalem, al-husseini. the latter took an active part in the armenian genocide, organized pogroms in jerusalem and in 1941 advocated to adolf hitler the extermination of all the jews in europe. anti-semitism is one of the core values of islam. the modest response of israel shows that it is a beacon of humanity in the beastly world of islam. that is why the eu must stop all financial aid to the palestinians. israel deserves our unconditional support.
i have a slightly different story than the last two speakers because the reports by rapporteurs ruas, blanco lópez and jakovčić show that the agreed eu 2020 objectives and the european structural and investment funds go hand in hand. with the €360 billion, we are investing in the heart of the eu 2020 targets and within the commitments of the stability and growth pact. as mrs crețu has also said, these are knowledge, innovation, the digital economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, the low-carbon and blue economy, energy and social inclusion, including for refugees. that is basically the end of this debate on 2016 and the adjustments to the multiannual financial framework and the eu 2020 agreements. more figures are on the table in early 2016. but at the same time, we also see that there are problems with implementation. application procedures have become too cumbersome. the control density is also increasing. the checks are piling up. that is why i ask commissioner crețu: will you also make proposals for simplification in the near future, where appropriate? the high level working group, led by vice-president and commissioner siim kallas, can help in this respect. the ep has already expressed its support for interim technical adjustments to the regulations. we have already prepared a resolution, with thanks to mr andrey novakov, which, after further consideration, can be voted on later this year.
today we are witnessing yet another attempt by brussels to undermine the sovereignty of the nation states. the elections to the european parliament must be made more european and less national, ostensibly because you are concerned about the democratic deficit in brussels, about the ever-decreasing turnout, about the fact that nobody knows who is the president of the european commission. the democratic deficit cannot be solved by fighting democracy in the member states with a ban on exit polls, with the obligation to put men and women on the electoral rolls again and again, with electoral thresholds. you'd better worry about why nobody cares, why only 42 percent of eligible voters feel called to go and vote. perhaps it has something to do with the alien attitude of the majority of the so-called representatives of the people who are seated here in this parliament. elections to the european parliament are elections of national representatives who, in my case, should represent the dutch people. these elections are held in the netherlands and are governed by the dutch electoral law. please do not interfere with that.
in the eu we have a single market with free movement of goods. gmo products are also covered. the new commission proposal would restrict the free movement of gmo products. this could mean, for example, reintroducing border controls and bypassing some member states by trucks. all too often we see files being blocked for legal or procedural reasons, which hampers businesses and end users. i am thinking here of the new plant breeding techniques, for example cisgenesis. unlike genetically modified organisms, only genes of the species are used. this is basically the same as conventional breeding, only many times faster. beneficial crop characteristics such as disease and drought resistance can thus be crossed more quickly and efficiently. this can reduce the use of plant protection products considerably. in 2012, the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that cisgenesis is as safe as conventional breeding and that when only genes of the species are used in breeding, there is no gmo. however, cisgenese is still subject to strict gmo legislation, which still prevents the use of this promising technique. back to the proposal on the table. the consequences of the new proposal for the import of gmos are very harmful. it would be good if both the commission and the member states took their responsibility and made the present system work. i am convinced that the european parliament will take its responsibility by rejecting the proposal.
europe is making a mockery of food policy. the main aim of this novel food proposal is to enable the food industry to bring futuristic food to the european market as quickly and easily as possible. clone meat, nanomedicine, bug burgers, all of which are big money items. on the side, there are still efforts to protect animal welfare, food safety and the environment, but these measures are contradictory, fragmented and often overtaken by reality. take cloned meat, for example. the majority of european citizens and the european parliament are against animal cloning. but while a ban is still being worked on, this novel food proposal can be started with the pleasure of its approval. without a clear vision and without clear priorities, you cannot have a consistent policy. the welfare of animals, the environment and food safety, which are important european values, cannot be guaranteed. we cannot let the euro be the only european shared value, can we? i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
today we are discussing the regulation on novel foods. in this context, it is important to keep the door open to new technological developments. we're going to need it badly if we're going to continue to feed the world's population, especially in the future. the european market has become increasingly unified in recent years and i am therefore pleased that the new procedure facilitates the admission of new products to the market. this will make it easier to market new foods such as nanotechnology products and insects. how are we going to feed our population in a sustainable way if we don't think about new ways and how we can achieve that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must give the developments i know from the netherlands, including the universities of twente and brabant, a chance and let them prove themselves. just being afraid is not going to get us anywhere. when people let fear drive them, they make the wrong decisions. the debate must be based on facts and not on emotions, and for that we need common sense. i would like to invite the critics to come to the netherlands to see what the state of play is in the field of nanotechnology.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. european air quality is affected by methane emissions in third countries. this is why the european commission has chosen to include methane in the nec directive to show the rest of the world that the eu has a clear methane target. i do not think that this is the right instrument. i think the following arguments are sufficient to exclude methane from the proposal. number one: methane is primarily a greenhouse gas and is therefore already regulated through climate targets. two , you 're not . the commission has already reduced methane emissions in europe by almost a third. three , please . we can reduce methane emissions from ruminants like cows and sheep through feed, but the only way to actually capture methane is to put animals back in the barn, and that's when society is asking us to keep the animals out. fourth . in particular, organically farmed animals emit more methane because they are fed a different diet. five , please . the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of the european union. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal. so we achieve exactly what we want when we give the agricultural entrepreneurs the space and flexibility to achieve the realistic objective.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, julie girling, for the very good cooperation we enjoyed. we might disagree on some issues in relation to air quality policies, but ms girling was a fair negotiator and a fair rapporteur, and we were able to reach a good position in the committee on environment, public health and food safety. that is the position we will defend here in the plenary vote. what the environment committee has produced is balanced, ambitious and pragmatic, and that is very important. we are here to fight to keep up that stance in order to open negotiations with the member states. i would like to mention two issues. the first is the higher ambition level. we have a european parliament impact assessment available showing that, with the same cost effectiveness, we can reduce our emissions more, and deliver more on public health. that finding has been reached with an impact assessment. people are always complaining that we just come up with numbers and put them where we like: well, this has been done on the basis of research. i think that is a very good thing, and we support the higher ambition level based on research. on the second point, agriculture, it is fascinating to hear that everyone is talking about air quality and the fact that we need source policies and that all sectors need to contribute, so for the first time we are addressing agriculture – and immediately there is a major lobby out there to get rid of any action in relation to agriculture. i have a major problem with that: every sector needs to contribute, and certainly also agriculture. we are looking forward to the negotiations after this vote.
i'm a calm and optimistic person. but when the european commission starts to interfere with figures, and in this case with the monitoring and standardization of emissions, then the damp sweat of fear breaks out in me. the commission has been tampering with figures for 20 years. how seriously can you take an institution which has not received a single approval of its expenditure from its own court of auditors in the last 20 years? it's the same as asking robert mugabe to check the elephant population in africa. totally out of luck. and this proposal is hopeless, too.
clean air is literally vital. air pollution is a very dangerous killer and we know that in europe thousands of people die prematurely every year from particulate matter. it is therefore important that we establish stricter standards, especially for particulate matter. at the same time, we must not fall into the trap of unnecessary rule-making. substances such as methane are already regulated in the climate package and i do not think that double regulation is desirable. let's stick to the rules. that's really crucial. at the same time, we have to puzzle over where the boundaries should be and ask ourselves if they are really achievable. it must not be that dutch cows will soon be unable to graze in the pasture because europe has introduced an ill-conceived rule. cows should be able to stand in the pasture and eat fresh grass instead of being inside in the stable and chewing imported soybeans. clean air is important, but not unnecessary rule-making.
this proposal is a direct hit to our productive sectors, such as industry, transport and agriculture. the inclusion of methane in the proposal constitutes a serious constraint on the reduction of greenhouse gases. there is over-regulation and this threatens to destroy many family farms in europe. since 1990, ammonia emissions have fallen by 30% in europe and by 66% in the netherlands. this is mainly due to the heavy efforts of family farms, which have suffered greatly under the environmental measures. it is not possible that the 2005 zero line will be used indiscriminately. the future air quality must be based on the efforts of the member states. that is necessary for a level playing field in europe. clean air may cost something, but don't let the same sectors pay for it all the time. one of the solutions must be manure processing and the use of phosphate as a valuable future scarce resource. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i therefore ask the commissioner to take action on this. i have been doing that for 20 years as a director in politics and agriculture. this is how farmers know where they stand and can invest. and that's a very important point about clean air in this debate.
in writing. ‒ in the vote on the enlargement of the european court of justice, we chose to abstain on all amendments relating to the number of judges. it is important that the court of first instance should function properly, which is why enlargement is necessary. the original draft law therefore envisaged an extension of the existing 28 judges by 12 additional judges (1 per member state). unfortunately, the negotiations between the member states have shown that the national interest was considered to be so important that it was decided to extend the number of judges by 28 additional judges, i.e. a total of two per member state. other amendments to the proposal such as attention to gender equality, efficient organisation and a review clause are supported. we therefore did not want to jeopardise the compromise text, since our s&d group had to negotiate hard to get these points in. but because of the large number of judges, the additional costs involved and the question of whether this doubling is proportionate, we have therefore chosen to abstain on those specific points.
in writing. ‒ in the vote on the enlargement of the european court of justice, we chose to abstain on all amendments relating to the number of judges. it is important that the court of first instance should function properly, which is why enlargement is necessary. the original draft law therefore envisaged an extension of the existing 28 judges by 12 additional judges (1 per member state). unfortunately, the negotiations between the member states have shown that the national interest was considered to be so important that it was decided to extend the number of judges by 28 additional judges, i.e. a total of two per member state. other amendments to the proposal such as attention to gender equality, efficient organisation and a review clause are supported. we therefore did not want to jeopardise the compromise text, since our s&d group had to negotiate hard to get these points in. but because of the large number of judges, the additional costs involved and the question of whether this doubling is proportionate, we have therefore chosen to abstain on those specific points.
in writing. ‒ in the vote on the enlargement of the european court of justice, we chose to abstain on all amendments relating to the number of judges. it is important that the court of first instance should function properly, which is why enlargement is necessary. the original draft law therefore envisaged an extension of the existing 28 judges by 12 additional judges (1 per member state). unfortunately, the negotiations between the member states have shown that the national interest was considered to be so important that it was decided to extend the number of judges by 28 additional judges, i.e. a total of two per member state. other amendments to the proposal such as attention to gender equality, efficient organisation and a review clause are supported. we therefore did not want to jeopardise the compromise text, since our s&d group had to negotiate hard to get these points in. but because of the large number of judges, the additional costs involved and the question of whether this doubling is proportionate, we have therefore chosen to abstain on those specific points.
in writing. ‒ the vvd delegation believes that the novel food regulation is an improvement for food producers by simplifying, speeding up and centralising the procedure for placing novel foods on the market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the vvd delegation expressed, however, its concern about the possible costs of such an authorization procedure for the producers of insects intended for human consumption already on the market in the netherlands. the european commission should therefore ensure a smooth and rapid transition with a minimum of administrative burden for the operators concerned. the fvo continues to monitor this situation very closely and is in contact with the producers concerned. legal uncertainty has led to this undesirable situation. the vvd delegation, however, believes that this new legislation creates legal clarity and benefits producers, and therefore votes in favour.
in writing. ‒ the vvd delegation believes that emission ceilings for methane have no place in the directive on national emissions of air pollutants. methane is a greenhouse gas and is already regulated in climate objectives agreements, including the effort sharing decision. it gives member states the flexibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of co2 equivalents. the inclusion of methane in the directive on national emission ceilings limits this flexibility, and the vvd delegation is against this. the vvd delegation welcomed the exclusion of methane emissions from ruminants but would have preferred that methane was not included in the european parliament's position at all.
for the enf group the european police academy we're talking about today is part of the larger brussels dream: one large european law enforcement system. because if it is up to brussels, our agents will be trained at the european police academy, the european public prosecutor's office will prosecute criminals and the european union will decide what punishment they will receive. the party for freedom, my party, therefore says no to a european police academy and no to further domination of our judicial system by the european union. there's nothing wrong with police cooperation between sovereign states, but we don't need cepol for that. let us leave the policing to the agents in the nation states and not hand it over to the european union.
"blue card" question. what is it? the greek colleague is rightly critical of the eurozone and what is happening in the eurozone. but i don't hear him offering solutions. why are you not considering leaving the eurozone? then you negotiate a large debt write-off, while ensuring that you can continue to benefit from european funds. that way you can get a restart outside the euro zone, which i'm sure is really the best thing for your country. why don't you advocate that?
in almost all european countries, the european union is struggling with its image. it is not possible to get the citizens enthusiastic about europe. unfortunately, too few groups in this house are drawing any real conclusions from this. we see that in part in the rosati report. on the one hand, the rapporteur, mr rosati, makes good suggestions, for example, to involve the national parliaments more closely in the whole process. on the other hand, he also advocates more europe, for example when referring to the five-presidency plan or a new system of own resources in the european union. we're not supposed to go that way. the agreements of the stability and growth pact have been breached with impunity for years, for example by france. the budget for next year is also running into deficits. it doesn't have to be like this anymore. we have to do what we agreed to. only then will we regain the confidence of the citizens, not by advocating more and more europe. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the 'blue card' question. mr van dalen's argument is really 'rules are rules'. let us be frank, mr van dalen, you must also admit that this policy has not worked, not in the economic sense but also not in the political sense. since when has the premise of "rules" brought enthusiasm to his rules? how is that supposed to stimulate enthusiasm for the european union? i wonder how many hands you'll get on each other for that.
"blue card" is the answer. the great flaw of europe is that many colleagues here also always think more europe must be, more europe is good for you. but what is not being done is to finally implement the things we agreed to. it's not gonna happen. the standards of the stability and growth pact have been exceeded for years. the commission does not intervene. day by day, those measures are being violated. we have to change that. that is the crux of my argument. we have to keep our promises before we start shouting: we need more europe, that will solve everything.
economic governance, it sounds a little bit dusty to many, but it's about democracy. the board should never be made up of bureaucratic rules. that's the death knell for politics. that does not mean that politics and this european parliament should not shy away from making choices. because yes, we want policies that help stabilize the economy and at the same time we want policies that make government debt sustainable. we want countries to take responsibility for austerity, reform and investment. but we also want countries not to be left to their own devices. how do we combine that? that's tricky, especially if one of the elements isn't recognized. when the euro crisis broke out, it was not possible to take responsibility for the crisis. countries and banks would have overthrown each other and so debts were not written off, to the detriment of greece and in favor of private creditors. debts could have been written off, but they were not. we can't let this happen again. we also have to ask ourselves what we can learn from the united states, where a state like california or a city like detroit can go into financial trouble without the question of whether that state or city should leave the dollar zone. rules should not give the impression that debt and deficits are being limited and controlled by brussels. brussels is not credible. democracy and economic governance require clear choices. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" question. what is it? i must use a blue card here, because mr tang is saying something very striking. he's making a plea for debt relief. i couldn't agree more. but he would be very happy to tell his finance minister, mr dijsselbloem, about this, because in the negotiations with greece there was one man who did not want to talk about debt relief at all, and that was his party colleague, mr dijsselbloem. so i think this is a good speech by mr tang. please have him forward this to his party colleague.
"blue card" is the answer. i do not need the european parliament to speak to mr dijsselbloem. but i will do it at the request of lord van dalen. his message has certainly arrived. there were no reasons to oppose the debt write-off in principle, but there were also political circumstances. in countries such as germany, spain and portugal, there were governments in power which are obviously very opposed to this, and jeroen dijsselbloem is the president of the entire eurogroup. i can add that in 2010, when you were still a member of the national parliament, you also advocated depreciation. that was not feasible at the time, because we were in a situation where a country would overturn banks. that is a situation we must avoid in future.
normally the first thing you ask when you meet someone new is: "who are you and what do you do?" work provides people with an income but also gives them an identity and leads to satisfaction and development. so people lose a lot when they lose their jobs. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to tackle longterm unemployment and its clear ambition to help everyone get a job. i am also pleased to have the support of the council. i am happy with the agreement on integration into employment, but i wonder how we are going to implement it. how do we ensure that people have good quality jobs that they can live off? it seems clear to me that the commission must ensure that there is sufficient funding and that this funding should be made available to the member states quickly and easily, as is now the case with the youth initiative. my main concern is that as the economy recovers, the number of jobs will be left behind. at the same time, we see that companies are trying to save money and also to save tax bills. i believe that companies should also take responsibility for creating jobs. hence my question: what measures will the commission and the council take to encourage both the member states and industry to create more jobs? i am glad that the minister says that the government must invest, but i also expect investment from ordinary business.
commissioner, today in a long, long vote – we have already voted on the ruas report on the europe 2020 strategy and the structural and investment funds and the european semester, which concerns about one third of our european eu budget. we have concluded that this investment in the real economy forms the main investment budget for attaining the europe 2020 objectives. up until 2020 we have some eur 460 billion, including co-financing, available for growth and jobs, and, as i said before about research and development, there will, for the first time, be eur 43 billion available for that goal under the structural funds. but for all that the europe 2020 strategy is, like the lisbon strategy, in danger of missing its objectives. the europe 2020 strategy needs to change from a highly top-down approach to a bottom-up approach. this will be discussed at the seventh knowledge and innovation summit in december, innovation, that is, leading to a pact, a pact on innovation, an approach to which commissioners moedas and katainen have already committed themselves. this will really connect industrial regions and cities and education and knowledge institutes with citizens and provide a platform for specific projects. the eu project being pursued by this juncker commission hardly reaches citizens. that is why this approach is needed and i think that we can introduce it into the upcoming debate.
the social gap in europe is widening, between young and old, between the southern and northern member states. the european union also faces the threat of poverty and social exclusion for 26 million children and young people. that is what the social justice index presented yesterday shows. the fight against poverty has, like the europe 2020 strategy, become a neglected child. we are far behind schedule and the austerity measures have actually made the situation worse. this is all the more so for children, since poverty is a lifelong condition. i would therefore like to know what the commission is going to do to use the renewed europe 2020 strategy as a means of making people more resilient. how do these objectives fit into the social pillar and what concrete actions will the commission take to achieve the poverty target and break the vicious circle of poverty for families?
we are glad that time has not stopped at the commission and that this subject is finally being discussed. the pvv has raised this issue here five years ago. is the commission aware of the british study which shows that summertime is much better for health than wintertime, and does it share this conclusion? the pvv says stop the winter time. it is not only better for health but also better for tourism, for the transport sector and for saving energy. the commission should be concerned about that. in an age of energy-saving light bulbs, lighting costs are now much less, while energy-consuming air conditioners last much longer in the summer. we can also think about safety. for example, the disruption of the sleeping rhythm could lead to many more accidents. mr president, can the commission (or rather the council) find out for us whether there is enough support in europe to abolish wintertime and, if so, is it prepared to do so?
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs foster, for her work. in this context, i would say: "well done" becomes "well drone". the safe integration of drones into european airspace should be ensured. that is why european regulation is so necessary. the sooner the better. recent drone accidents illustrate this all too well. a very important aspect of this is liability. who should be held liable for the damage caused by a drone falling from the sky? in order to guarantee liability, we need to ensure that there is a clear link to the owner or operator of the drone and that they can be traced at all times when such a drone causes damage. compulsory registration and the installation of a compulsory identification chip could be a solution. that is the direction i have indicated in an amendment of mine which has been incorporated in the report. it is therefore clear that european regulation is needed and we really need to get on with it. fortunately, an aviation package with a proposal on this will be issued at the beginning of december. i think it is important that the council, under the dutch presidency, together with the european parliament, take a step in the right direction so that the drone industry can really take off.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, before the start of the sitting i would like to raise a point. today, november 11th, we commemorate the end of the first world war, a terrible event in our history, which caused the death of millions. in many countries of the european union, this day is also a national day of remembrance for those who died. we are holding a meeting here, and as a result some members of parliament are unable to attend because they feel that the commemoration is so important. so i want to do two things. first of all, i would like to express my regret that we are meeting today. couldn't that have been another day? secondly, i would ask you, as president, to reflect on the deaths of the first world war.
we've heard it from several speakers: if you want to boost the economy and create real growth and jobs, it's about fiscal discipline, it's about structural reforms and then you have monetary policy at your disposal. we now see mario draghi with the ecb pumping 60 billion every month into the economy of a kind of financial growth hormones. that's a relief, but it's basically the same as a bodybuilder taking growth hormones. on the surface, it all looks a little better, but when you want to quit, there's nothing left if you haven't actually really trained and worked hard on your body. in other words: we cannot do it with the ecb's monetary policy alone. i would therefore urge the commissioner not to let the reins fall, either in terms of strict budgetary discipline or in terms of structural reforms. we simply cannot afford to do that. if we don't do this now, all this work will be for nothing. just as the first signs of improvement are beginning to appear, people in portugal and other countries seem to be thinking: oh, i could use a little less. in italy, matteo renzi has said that these reforms are politically awkward. all of that may be true, but if we really want to create economic growth again, they are inevitable and all countries will have to implement them.
mr president, i think that anyone in this house who has children might actually know the story of the very confused, very mixed-up chameleon. he tries to be every colour at the same time and every animal at the same time, and in the end he is not even able to catch a fly. if i listen to this house, we are trying to turn the commission into a very confused chameleon. we want to push them further to the left, further to the right, we demand that the country-specific recommendations have more focus, including on social issues, and then at the same time we complain that not enough elements are taken on board when preparing these country-specific recommendations. if i listen to this house, we not only want this commissioner to be a european politician but also a portuguese one. i think that in last year’s annual growth survey there was a very smart triangle of reform for competitiveness, budgetary responsibility and investment – and may i remind you that that is not only public investment but also private. i hope that this so-called holy triangle or trinity will remain in next year’s annual growth survey. of course, this house rightly has demands. we demand more political oversight in the future, for example though the adoption of convergence guidelines. we want checks and we want balances in the process of making economic policy. so for my part, the european fiscal board could have been more independent than is currently proposed. but i warn colleagues that we will not get any of our wishes respected if we forget the foundation which is this holy trinity. so, reminded of the chameleon, i would like to say to this commissioner: stay on course, remain yourself, and move steadily but carefully forward.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i should like to thank my colleague, marian marinescu, and also ismail ertug and gesine meissner, for the fact that we have succeeded as a parliament in drawing up a clear and precise resolution on aviation. i can tell you that expectations are certainly high in the ppe group. we really want to have an innovative and competitive piece on 2 december which shows where mrs bulc wants to take the european aviation industry in the coming years. i understand that it will happen on december 2nd. i would like to mention four elements. firstly, competition. the european airline industry is already too small. we must be able to compete on a world scale. but this must be done in a fair way and, as you know, we have our doubts whether this is the case in some countries in the far east. so that's a big focus. the second point concerns innovation. the european aircraft industry, but also developments in the field of drones and satellite systems, are of enormous importance to european industry and we must cherish and promote them. the third point is the social agenda. the airline industry is sometimes in a tough spot and europe must look at its social agenda. and finally, the safety. safety in the aviation industry is and remains a challenge for us and for mrs bulc, as we have seen recently with the accident in egypt, although it was actually more a question of safety there.
unfortunately, this parliament is making another attempt to undermine its own credibility. everyone knows that the european commission has written and prepared the aviation package, but we are now, just before the presentation by the european commission, back with a wish list. i'm sorry for all the trees that died because of this waste of paper. we look forward to the presentation by the commission in a few days' time and i hope that the package will include three aspects. firstly, a level playing field for air transport, both within europe and in competition with the middle eastern airlines. secondly, that safety is closely monitored when flying over risk areas and also when checking in baggage, as at risky airports, in particular sharm el-sheikh. finally, it describes fair working conditions and prevents dumping practices such as those of norwegian air. i look forward to meeting this package.
i would like to draw attention to a point which is also mentioned in the resolution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. let's face it, this case is stuck in the council. i understand very well the political sensitivities in both the united kingdom and spain, but these sensitivities are holding the whole european aviation sector hostage. passengers and airlines want clarity on their rights and obligations. i understand that the european commission is considering the possibility of issuing interpretative guidelines to clarify existing legislation pending new legislation. personally, i am a little less happy about that because i think it is really crucial to put pressure on the council to come up with new rules. only with new rules will the desired clarity be achieved. i would therefore urge my fellow countrymen who are to assume the dutch presidency of the council to really get going and deliver what europe expects.
last may, research by ghent university revealed that almost half of the planes operated by low-cost airlines such as ryanair are operated by mostly young freelancers on pay-to-fly contracts. cabin crew from south east asia, such as norwegian air, are also becoming more common. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the air transport services. these practices are bad for workers, pose risks to passenger safety and harm airlines that treat their employees with dignity. commissioner thijssen said earlier this week that precarious work in europe must be tackled. that is a big task which requires more work than any one commissioner can handle. that is why i ask commissioner bulc: what are you going to do to address the social abuses in international transport? for example, in the aviation package, will you link landing rights to just good work?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, under rule 152 of the rules of procedure, i urge parliament to close the debate on oral question o—000141/2015 on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016–2020 with a resolution. the current animal welfare strategy ends on 31 december and the commission shows no sign of coming forward with a new strategy. this is unacceptable. there are many issues concerning animal welfare in the european union which should be addressed, and we want the commission to come forward with a clear roadmap to do that. also, on behalf of my colleague, stefan eck, i ask for your support to add this resolution to close the debate. if you think animals matter, this is the time to show it.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, madam commissioner, the alde group welcomes the fact that this trade agreement and trade negotiations, which are the first of their kind between the eu and a developing country, vietnam, have been concluded. we think it is a good agreement. trade, as an element of the broader eu foreign policy agenda, is one of the more concrete instruments and one where parliament plays a leading and important role. but we should also think of development policies. we see, too, that citizens are increasingly and actively getting involved with this discussion, and we welcome this. people in europe are very clear that they want to see human rights at the top of the european foreign policy agenda. i believe that human rights are key. i think that the eu has both the opportunity and the responsibility to lead in ensuring that universal human rights are respected worldwide. while trade must be an important lever, it cannot in and of itself be the solution to end all suffering and problems. listening to the public debates, people sometimes have very high hopes of the impact that trade can have. but realistically, we must do what we can. i see this ambition and vision – tying trade and values – clearly reflected in the commission’s new trade for all agenda. besides the anticipated boost to development and economic well-being, building on vietnam’s efforts to lift people out of poverty, i would like to know what short-term measures are anticipated. how does the commission address human rights in the context of trade and how does monitoring look after the agreement enters into force? there is a lot that has to be improved in vietnam. free expression, free association, freedom of assembly are all controlled and under pressure; torture and beatings unfortunately happen too regularly; and minorities, journalists, bloggers and opposition figures suffer as a result of this. in conclusion, these many challenges cannot be solved through trade alone. we need to work and build on the human rights dialogue and show political leadership. i look forward to continuing this discussion and monitoring the impact this trade agreement will have on human rights in vietnam. i will continue to address it in other ways as well.
the suffering we cause animals is enormous and with a new animal welfare strategy europe can do something about it. the basis for this is already laid down in article 13 of the lisbon treaty, which says that animals are sentient beings, which we must take into account. but what are these words worth if the commission does not take any initiative in the field of animal welfare and leaves animals to their fate and to the operation of the market? what are those words worth when europe is a sanctuary for savage bullfights or even the burning of bulls? what are these words worth when the unstunned slaughter of animals is still allowed, when there are alternatives? and what are those words worth when the endless dragging of animals in overcrowded cattle cars in and out of europe is still allowed? what are those words worth if we do not prohibit the painful force-feeding of animals for the production of foie gras? the commission can tackle these abuses, mr president, not with a eurobarometer survey but simply with a new animal welfare strategy. but last week it already informed several ngos that it had no intention of coming up with a new strategy, and that was before this debate with parliament. that cannot be true, mr president! i hope that the commission will today show respect for the broad call from society and parliament to stand up for animals. they have a right to it. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
we are talking about the continuation of the animal welfare strategy. i am against it for the following reason. the directives and regulations must be implemented and we have those instruments in this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. many farmers in the netherlands have already implemented these directives and regulations. now we have an uneven playing field, high costs for the farmer and the citizen does not pay. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the common agricultural policy. we're talking about animal welfare here. but it should be about human welfare. we in europe let refugees walk for hours in the cold - and i am thinking of the elderly and small children - while animals are heated, ventilated and given water during transport. and we are talking about reducing driving time from eight hours to seven. in the netherlands, the cabinet says: if there's no room for refugees, people have to sleep outside in the cold, in the snow. the animals have been subjected to and have met stringent requirements as regards heating, cage area and lighting. is there nothing else for us in this house to do? the epp resolution on paris was not supported. let's get on with today's agenda item. let us help people and find solutions to the real crisis in europe, which is asylum policy, good reception and a joint approach to the terrorist movement isis. that is why human welfare should now be put on the agenda ahead of animal welfare, which i have always been a staunch supporter of. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. a totally familiar point. we have already said this many times in the dutch parliament. but the same citizens who sit with 10 dogs or cats in an eight-story apartment, say that my pigs do not have a good place and are not well cared for. that is why i think that all sectors and all animal matters should be involved.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner šefčovič for pushing the energy union, because we know that one of the biggest problems we have in europe, causing the high energy price, is the fragmented market. that is the real reason why the energy price is so high, and that is exactly what you are trying to address. but it really is time now – and you also say this in your plan – to act and not only to produce paper. we are looking forward to that, but therein lies the problem. where is the commission going to act to make sure that europe as a whole is moving? a lot has been said about renewables and efficiency. i would like to address one of the biggest problems we have in europe as well, and that is coal. coal is one of the biggest problems we have in europe, and we are subsidising it: every year coal companies in the eu get eur 10 billion. so we are giving a lot of subsidies, and within the eu emissions trading scheme (ets) we are even giving free allowances until 2030. the eu is not leading on coal, and my very clear question to the commission is this: what are you going to do, specifically, to make sure that our coal dependency goes down? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is always fascinating to hear ukip talk about these kinds of things as soon as ‘green’ is in it. why exactly are you not making any point on the huge subsidy plans that are going to nuclear in hinkley point? billions of euros you want to use to subsidise hinkley nuclear. is it not about time to start discussing that issue instead of the renewables where the prices go down, where people have own ownership of energy? that is something that you should strive for, instead of just going for centralised nuclear and big subsidies there. it is you who are barking up the wrong tree.
mr president, from the far left to the far right, we are all concerned about jobs and growth in the european union, and rightly so. let’s face it: the competitiveness of our industry is also one of the central themes in the whole debate on the energy union, and it is obvious that europe needs cheap, clean and independent energy. desperately clinging to our fossil past will definitely not create competitiveness in the future. we see that new disruptive technologies are overhauling europe’s energy system. prices of solar technology are dropping sharply and energy efficiency is decoupling economic growth from our energy use. key to affordable energy is giving certainties to investors. energy infrastructure requires large, risky capital-intensive investments, and only governance arrangements based on eu legal mechanisms can create this stability and predictability. the current energy union is still far away from legislative action based on democratic decision-making. the energy union is, unfortunately, based on voluntary submissions from member states, and the commission should be more ambitious here. but the main obstacle is again the member states. they seem to prefer having full ownership of their own national energy policies with expensive pollutive energy systems to being part of a full-scale european approach with astronomical benefits, and the absence of the council here today is exemplary. let us care about jobs and growth in europe and push our member states towards a true european energy union.
in writing. ‒ although the name of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) suggests otherwise, the ccsbt is mainly concerned with the exploitation of tuna and not with the protection of tuna. the ccsbt sets annual quotas for bluefin tuna in the southern hemisphere oceans, whereas bluefin tuna is threatened with extinction and fishing should be stopped. the ccsbt policy is nothing more than destructive mispolicy: the ccbst offers no prospect of recovery for bluefin tuna. europe is likely to defend the interests of french and spanish tuna fishermen, but it is also expected to counterbalance the ccsbt policy, which is now mainly determined by japan and korea. i voted for this report in the hope that the eu, as a member of the ccbts, will be able to stop the increase in quotas and will pursue a total ban on the catching of bluefin tuna. i will be closely monitoring the future eu contribution to the ccbts.
in writing. ‒ child poverty is a serious problem. it's a shame that children still live in poverty. the party for the animals stands up for the very weakest in our society. but the fight against child poverty by brussels must not be misused to impose european social and economic policies on member states. this is at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states. we in the netherlands are quite capable of defining our own social and economic policies and have good social security standards. we do not need a european reform agenda to undermine this. however, i wholeheartedly support the call from europe to tackle child poverty.
many multinational corporations, such as starbucks, facebook and philip morris, are deliberately avoiding taxes. the special committee on tax rulings has again brought this to light. my own country, the netherlands, made this possible by secret agreements that were on the fringes of the law. i call that unethical. after all, all these companies benefit from social facilities such as infrastructure, vigilant police forces and trade agreements, but they do not pay for them. companies, consumers and governments must ensure that corporate social responsibility is also a reality for these multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is fair and that the tax on profits is paid where the profits are made. taxation is and remains a core competence of the member states and competition between member states in the field of taxation helps governments to remain sharp and lean. i do not want european tariffs, but we can make a big difference here in europe in terms of transparency and definitions.
perhaps in addition to what the previous speaker said. i am not known in this house as someone who is sick of a little competition, but if that competition means that we are all involved in a race to absolute zero, i think that is not wise. so i welcome the work that this committee has done. i think that this committee - and i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the chairman - has worked largely on the same basic principle, and that is fairness. how fair is it when citizens pay taxes, when smes pay their fair share and then big companies jump the gun across the border? yes, the groups differ in their views on what is needed next. what is proportional? what should you do, what shouldn't you do? but we in this parliament are for the most part agreed that the solution, despite the fact that taxation is a national matter, must also be found in europe. and the report makes some very useful suggestions to that end, which i wholeheartedly support. the european commission is thus given a very important task, namely to put together, to fit together 28 national pieces of the puzzle. the responsibility, dear commission, to dare to take action when necessary. that has been lacking in the past. and that is what i miss in the debate, and i may have to agree with the previous speaker on the subject of competition. of course, we do not operate in a vacuum. the european union is in a global context, and i miss the story: are we looking at the competitive position enough? not of one individual country, but of the european union as a whole. this is a good start. and get back to work.
thank you to the rapporteurs and the chairman of the special committee on tax rulings. there is an excellent report that shows that a huge financial, legal complex has been created that allows big companies, the very richest, to siphon off their profits and to withdraw their assets from the tax authorities. that makes fairness a long shot. the disparities are very, very large. the coffee house can't compete fairly with starbucks. the common man or woman does not have the opportunities that the very richest have, and that affects tax morality. developing countries are looking into it. they see the much-needed tax dollars disappearing across the border. those are the victims. there are also perpetrators, and those perpetrators should be better named in the report. the culprits are the big corporations that claim to be socially responsible but have no trouble creating tax structures. the perpetrators are also the tax advisors who advise the big corporations or the tax havens that help to steal the profits or make the assets disappear. and the perpetrators are also the member states, here in europe, which are a gateway to these tax havens, including member states such as luxembourg and the netherlands. these countries must take the lead. i agree with esther de lange that the commission has an important role to play now. it must take initiatives and encourage the member states to put an end to these practices. let this report be the beginning of the end.
in paris, islam has once again shown its true face, the face of evil, in a monstrous manner. that makes me sad, but mostly it makes me angry. angry, because i wonder how many more victims will have to fall before the eyes of the onlookers are opened. angry, because i wonder when you'll stop making excuses for islamic terrorism. the problem is not the economic crisis, unemployment or not being at home at school. the west is under attack, and you're proposing to fight terrorism with awareness campaigns, school lectures, and tea with imams. you can't solve radicalization by hugging it. you can't solve that with millions of dollars of deradicalization projects. you don't solve that by sticking your head in the sand about the dangers of islam. the only cure for radicalization is de-islamicizing, pre-emptively detaining potential terrorists. jihadists who return are not treated as traumatized youths but as persona non grata. and if you want to go to syria, go, but don't come back. and finally, national states must close their borders and defend the freedom and security of their citizens.
in 2004, filmmaker theo van gogh was murdered in amsterdam. i was a member of the amsterdam city council at the time. he was killed by a radical muslim, an extremist. i was there. fortunately, i was not there at the time, but i was there when we had to worry in amsterdam about how to deal with extremists. turns out this extremist was being bugged at home by the secret service and they knew he was radicalizing. it was a boy from amsterdam with a dutch passport. and in the years that followed, there were the attacks in london, madrid, brussels, paris and toulouse, each time people with european passports on the intelligence services' radar. what we need to realise is that countering terrorism in europe means we need to understand why our boys are becoming radicalised and that means we need to be in the neighbourhoods and not cut back on policing and investigation.
good health and a decent working environment are fundamental social rights in europe. despite all the fine words and agreements, too many people still get sick at work. an ambitious policy on health and safety at work contributes to the productivity of companies and thus also to the sustainability of our social security systems, whereas the costs of not having such a policy are very high. in short, there is no excuse for not protecting workers. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances is a good one. i would ask the commission to ensure that the study of precarious work includes the effects of precarious work on working conditions.
4,000 workers die each year as a result of an accident at the workplace. three million people are unable to work for three days or more because of an accident at work. 25% of europeans feel that their safety or health at work is at risk. all in all, there are sufficient reasons for this debate to take place here tonight and i thank commissioner thyssen very much for her clear statement on this point. i think that the three priorities she has indicated are very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. marianne thyssen spoke about the labour inspectorates which must play a fundamental role in this and i sometimes wonder whether all labour inspectorates in europe are adequately equipped to fulfil that role. i would like to hear her thoughts on that and also how we might improve it. and then, as a final point, marianne thyssen also spoke about this and it's something that's close to my heart: the position of people with chronic pain, the position of people with neurological disorders, and the position of people with muscular disorders. people who often have a double burden, not just because of the disease, but also because they are dealing with stigma and problems in the workplace, whereas those very problems in the workplace can often be prevented with simple adjustments. i would also ask that you continue to pay close attention to this.
my condolences go out to the many victims of the terror attack in paris and their families. it is not only the french citizens who are shocked, but all european citizens. they call the perpetrators criminal terrorists or extremists. i tell you, mr president, these were not ordinary criminals or extremists. these were well-educated citizens with normal jobs. they were devout muslims driven by an ideal, the ideal of global islam. they were martyrs for the glory of allah, heroes of the religion of peace. that's how they're seen in their own circles and that's how they're seen by the majority of muslims in the world. the problem is not isis. the problem is islam. islam is incompatible with our western values and i ask this parliament the question of conscience: do you want to guarantee the dominance of our western values in the eu? then you must fight islam. we need to stop foreign funding of mosques, expel hate imams and close national borders to muslim countries. if we don't, the next attack is only a matter of time. it's up to you, sir.
madam president, after every attack, like everybody else, i feel grief, shock, horror, and anger at the murderers. i also feel mounting frustration because what follows is a familiar ritual by now. first, we get a lot of solemn statements about our shared values (but quite frankly, i have heard some statements here that make me doubt whether we have shared values). then we hear a lot of solemn statements about democratic values, fundamental rights and the rule of law. much of this is lip service, because a raft of new measures is announced after every single attack, but their effectiveness is doubtful. the council and commission have so far refused an evaluation on the basis of article 7, as requested by this house. maybe now they will finally do it. implementation of the measures by the member states is patchy and inadequate. then there is a near obsession with electronic mass surveillance – whereas what is needed is much more investment in human intelligence, in people on the ground who know what is going on in the banlieues and in molenbeek. why do we tolerate the existence of ghettos in our cities that are no-go areas for the police – where the police do not even dare to get out of their cars – so they cannot know what is going on? let us start investing in human intelligence. lastly, with regard to the passenger name record (pnr) proposal, i am asking the council and the commission to stop the campaign of lies. it is a lie to suggest that this house, or even – as is sometimes claimed – the centre-left groups in it, are blocking a pnr system. we have voted, we are committed, we are working on this issue: but commitment does not mean a blank cheque, ok? this is democracy: we are entitled to our views. we are negotiating, and now it is for the council to move. the ball is in their court.
the horrific images of the cowardly attack in paris will haunt our minds for a long time. so many victims, so many young people whose lives were abruptly ended in a concert hall, a restaurant or on the street. it's only natural that they're looking at politics. it is only natural that europe should be considered. we all have a great responsibility here, parliament from left to right, the member states, the commission, to guarantee the safety of our citizens and it is high time we took up that responsibility. it is not a question of new proposals, as some of my colleagues would have us believe. these are proposals that were on our agenda long before paris: pnr, the counter-terrorism centre, the internet reporting unit, the mandate of europol, things we have sometimes been talking about for years. although some colleagues have tried to do so again here today, no european citizen can be explained that.
i would like to congratulate you very warmly on the way you have conducted this meeting and on the speed and efficiency with which you have done so. and for those who found it difficult: there are screens that show exactly what mood is. so, you are my favorite chairman and i look forward to seeing you back in this chair many times.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget for 2016 represents an increase of 1.8% compared to the 2015 budget. that's well above the inflation rate of 0.11%. the large number of people coming to the eu for asylum and migration requires more resources from the member states and the eu to address these issues. with this in mind, the eu is rightly cutting back in several other policy areas, but it should have done so much more. this also applies to the european parliament's budget, which is 2.4% higher than this year. the substantial increase in the eu budget shows that the eu still wants to do too much, including delivering economic growth and jobs, by doing the best that member states can. the crises of recent years should have made europe realize that it could do better by concentrating on its core tasks: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's action to include crossborder issues where the eu needs to deliver, such as working with member states to deal compassionately and fairly with refugees and migrants, and effectively tackling the persistent problems of the euro and excessive debt levels. it is absolutely positive that commissioner georgieva is really going to set priorities, but that should lead to a more efficient budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains a number of positive ideas. we know from history that extremism does not belong to any particular religion, ideology or population group, as some in this house would have us believe. this report recognises the importance of participation and engagement in the community, based on trust, so that signals can be recognised and reported in a timely manner without an entire community being seen as suspect. national security depends on security in the neighborhood, and local organizations need adequate resources, as does the ran network. we need to improve the use of our existing intelligence and strengthen agencies such as europol. that is a much better investment than collecting flight passenger name records (pnr), which i do not support. i also express my concern about some of the proposals for tackling extremism on the internet. i want illegal material removed as soon as possible, but within a legal framework. encryption is a tool that can be both positive and negative. eu citizens recruited for violent extremism pose a danger both within and beyond our borders. cooperation with third countries should be based on clear principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains a number of positive ideas. we know from history that extremism does not belong to any particular religion, ideology or population group, as some in this house would have us believe. this report recognises the importance of participation and engagement in the community, based on trust, so that signals can be recognised and reported in a timely manner without an entire community being seen as suspect. national security depends on security in the neighborhood, and local organizations need adequate resources, as does the ran network. we need to improve the use of our existing intelligence and strengthen agencies such as europol. that is a much better investment than collecting flight passenger data (pnr), which i do not support. i also express my concern about some of the proposals for tackling extremism on the internet. i want illegal material removed as soon as possible, but within a legal framework. encryption is a tool that can be both positive and negative. eu citizens recruited for violent extremism pose a danger both within and beyond our borders. cooperation with third countries should be based on clear principles.
the attacks in paris, the war in syria, the russian fighter plane shot down by a nato member, the total chaos in libya and, oh yes, the refugee crisis. we have a lot to worry about and you would say that right now european member states should count their blessings and invest in cooperation with each other and with neighbouring countries. this is no time to be selfish or opinionated. and when i hear the high commissioner say that this was a summit not about simple bribery but about partnership, i think that was the summit you wanted to have and that i wanted to have too. but when i look back, i see nothing different from the european member states which were selfish, which were one-sided, a summit which ended in: how can we use development money already earmarked to stop immigrants? a summit where member states were not willing to pay any money. a summit where we basically embezzled money. we've been playing with the pots that were already there. european countries were hoping to make deals with african countries to take back migrants, to set up asylum processing centers beyond our borders, to strengthen border controls. and in the search for quick solutions, member states seem willing to turn a blind eye to human rights situations in countries with dictatorial regimes such as eritrea or sudan or countries with military regimes that are almost indistinguishable from dictatorships, such as egypt. fleeing violence and oppression and bribing the oppressor may hold a refugee back for a short time, but in the long run the situation becomes unmanageable. isn't that what we learned from the past? we bought ben ali, gaddafi, mubarak, assad and if the summit goes on this weekend we'll buy erdogan. and what we did in valetta was help al-bashir and afewerki. what you and i want, mr president, is to do business honestly and invest honestly in africa. to give people the opportunity to work legally in europe and not have to get on those boats. we must change our trade policy, change our agricultural policy, not empty their seas. it's about making sure that people don't have to migrate, but can if they want to.
"blue card" question. what is it? i am very impressed and i too have been deeply moved by the images. this lady tells us what needs to be done and who needs to do what. but my question to this lady is: what does she do? how many refugees has she taken in to set a good example?
the expectations of the naive euro-friendly elite for the valetta summit were high, because deals would be made with african countries to take back illegal immigrants immediately. the flow of illegal immigrants from africa would now be really curbed. but, mr president, of course, in line with the general failure of the european union, none of that has come to pass. because, of course, all of africa was after one thing. more money from the europeans and they got more money. hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money on top of the billions that africa is already getting was pumped into a trust fund. but it was not just tax money that was poured in to keep african countries happy. no, africa also gets easier visa procedures. this summit has turned out to be a big fiasco. billions are going to africa again, and as a thank you, even more african fortune seekers are coming to the european union. and if it's up to my party, the freedom party, no more money goes to africa and we spend our tax money in our own country and we close our borders.
expectations were high: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. it should have been an opportunity to formulate a common migration agenda with more than 60 countries. unfortunately, this opportunity was not seized and the summit ended in disappointment. the eu showed no willingness to tackle the root causes of migration, such as poverty, conflict, lack of employment, in a proactive manner. and african leaders were therefore unwilling to make deals on, for example, the mandatory return of rejected asylum seekers to europe, something that eu countries were hammering on. as we have unfortunately seen time and again in recent months, the european leaders have again failed to show the political courage, ambition and determination that will be needed if we are to tackle the refugee problem in a decent and effective way. there will be a rematch this weekend at the eu-turkey summit. turkey plays a key role in bringing the influx of asylum seekers into the eu under control. it is high time that european governments showed that they are willing to contribute to solutions and not just sign treaties and then do nothing about them.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, the violence in burundi keeps escalating. human rights defenders, journalists and their family members are attacked and murdered. since president nkurunziza insisted on continuing with his third term as president, and the politically-motivated killings started in april, at least 240 citizens have been killed. 215 000 burundians have fled the country and many people are internally displaced. public executions and silent killings continue. we saw that also during the last three weeks. i welcome the un security council resolution finally adopted on 12 november calling upon the government of burundi and all parties to reject any kind of violence and to immediately convene an inclusive and genuine dialogue with the ruling party and the opposition, both inside and outside of the country. but the sad thing today is that we could see this coming for years, and so it could have been prevented, but the international community chose to look away for way too long, even deciding to close the united nations office in burundi (bnub) six months before crucial elections. now it is our duty to act so that a full-blown civil war in the country is prevented. the latest elections that were held in burundi are not recognised by the international community, and the violence continues. so what is the eu doing in order to put pressure on the current government to comply with the un security resolution?
the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter. indeed, all sorts of people were not allowed to vote. i also share mr tannock's analysis of whether mrs aung san suu kyi will make room for minorities. but despite all the criticism, what we saw was an election day that was incredibly well organized. i must especially commend the young ladies who staff all those polling stations. it's like they're holding elections every day. we saw after the elections that the military accepted the gains of the nld. that is good news for the beginning of a new parliamentary democracy. but we're a long way from there. the military has had 25 years to shape the constitution in such a way that it will be a battle before we can talk about real democracy here, and that is a process in which we as the european parliament could also play a part. we have decided together that myanmar is one of the countries where we want to help parliamentary democracy. it is indeed my task to shape this together with you and that will be quite a job. but it is a parliament where parliamentarians are not seated by political group but in alphabetical order, and if that is the case then parliamentary democracy with a multiparty system is still a long way off.
mr president, georgia is, in many respects, a success story. it is the only country in the region that managed a peaceful transition from one government to another – a transition effected in the electoral booths rather than on the streets. furthermore, georgia is one of the three countries in the eastern neighbourhood which have stated that they want a closer relationship with the eu. the association agreement is the fundament of this – a relationship based on values. the rule of law, human rights and media freedom are at the core of these values. therefore it is crucial that even the perception of political interference with the judiciary and a free press is avoided at all times. in this regard, to put it diplomatically, the case of rustavi 2 should have been handled differently. but it is likewise worrying how former president saakashvili tried to instrumentalise this case to instigate unrest, which is the last thing georgians need right now. georgia has to deliver on reforms. furthermore, there so much instability around the country that it cannot afford deep internal divisions. the threats are external. three years after the democratic change of government, it is high time for the political forces in the country to unite. an important tangible result of eu-georgia cooperation might be the abolition of visa requirements for all georgian citizens, but that could come under threat if the unhealthy political rivalry in the country continues. are there still problems in georgia? yes, certainly. to name a few: the winner-takes-all mentality continues to prevail; the most influential political actor in georgia is not accountable to anyone; and radical groups keep popping up, although it is a mystery who is financing them. nevertheless i am confident that, with a genuine effort by all the political forces in the country, the necessary reforms already started under the previous administration can continue, and georgian citizens can soon reap the benefits of closer cooperation with the eu.
i have recently been on a working visit to moldova. it is my custom, when i come as a member of the european parliament to a third country, certainly one with which we have an association agreement, to go first to our highest representative, the european delegation. i am sorry to say that i have rarely heard a blacker picture than that of chisinau. when i asked our ambassador whether there was no alternative to the political class in power, the answer was a resounding "no". at the same time he told me - and i realized that - the european union's reputation is directly affected by this political bankruptcy. tell me who your political friends are. this also means that there is a drastically reduced confidence in the public in the road to europe. we should realize that here too. who are we allied with there? there is still a bright spot. in my country, the netherlands, there have been christian foundations for decades that have been working for the weakest in the poorest country in europe. fortunately, they maintain a high reputation. they also face the lack of a rule of law. but i hope that the european institutions will support this kind of citizens' initiative, because then we will have something to be proud of in moldova.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to thank mr caldera and the court of auditors for their report. it is, of course, a dismal report, which still shows that the number of errors is too high. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to concentrate on a few other points. we all agree that the citizens of europe want to know what the results of european union spending are and i am a strong supporter of performance and results-oriented policies. but there are some risks, too. firstly, it must not be reduced to a system of indicators which the democrats are happy with but which in reality only increase the cost. secondly, the european added value must be made clear in ordinary language. i'll give you one example. in its annual anti-fraud report, the european commission mentions as one of the main results of the hercules iii programme the organisation of 55 conferences and seminars. it is a good thing for officials and a useful way of getting to know each other, but it does not make european citizens happy. they want to know what the actual results of these meetings are. how does their cooperation really improve, and how can we measure that? a result must also be set off against all costs incurred. would projects have been possible without european funding? is money simply spent because it is there or was there an acute need? what are the costs for local and regional authorities, for example, of attracting projects? in brussels, they all have lobbying offices. they cost money, too. are we taking these costs into account in determining european added value? that's a whole other thing. the court of auditors rightly distinguishes between errors and fraud. but if the proportion of serious errors in procurement increases from 0.8% to 1.2% in one year, i wonder if there is more going on here. of course, tendering is a separate profession. but is this not deliberate malpractice and should serious errors not be treated as fraud?
what happens to an entrepreneur who does not get approval from his accountant? the next day, the irs is on his doorstep. he'll get a fine and a warning. but not with the eu. the eu has been able to go on for 20 years without the auditor, the european court of auditors, giving its approval. that is the eu in its best form. she makes a lot of rules and a lot of laws, and everything and everyone has to abide by them. except the eu itself. look, robert mugabe can learn a lesson from this. but the european citizen is aware of all this and is turning away en masse and losing faith in this eu. it's a good thing you did. the eu is back, and we're keeping it that way.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask this colleague a question. he has given a brief summary of the debate which has been going on here for 20 years and for 20 years there has been no improvement. why does my colleague think that things will suddenly get better now that this is the 20th time that this matter has been brought before this house? what has changed in the last 20 years that indicates that things will be better in the future?
in writing. ‒ the sp group believes that it is important to introduce more protective measures for the welfare of animals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. on the basis of this premise, the sp decided to abstain on parts of the proposal.
the european elite has knelt before the sultan of ankara. turkey will receive 3 billion euros. 75 million turks will be able to march visa-free through europe by the end of 2016, and turkey's accession to the eu is only a matter of time. erdoğan wants a new ottoman empire and the eu is letting it happen. cyprus was just a first step, and earlier erdogan said: minarets are our bayonets, domes are our helmets, mosques are our barracks and believers are our soldiers. he has said that democracy is not an end but only a means, that he is a servant of the sharia and that there is no such thing as moderate islam. how clear do you want it? we must protect western culture, democracy and freedom, not allow ourselves to be blackmailed, never allow ourselves to be dependent on a dictator. the closure of the internal borders is the answer to the flow of migrants and to the turkish invasion. that is why, mr president, we must ensure once and for all that turkey will never, ever, become a member of the eu, not in 100 000 years.
madam president, it is important that there is a deal with turkey that will make the influx of refugees to europe manageable. for too long we did not pay enough attention to the efforts made by the turkish population by hosting 2.02 million refugees, and with this summit it was recognised that only in partnership can this refugee crisis be handled. however, an essential part of the eu-turkey agreement is missing, which is due to internal divisions among eu member states: the fact of resettlement. no agreement has been reached on this yet, and i was at least pleased to hear first vice-president timmermans also mention this – that there are plans – and let us hope that member states will commit to this in the next summit. i welcome the reinvigorating of the accession talks. it is a pity that this crisis was needed to convince member states that a more intensive dialogue between the eu and turkey is very much in the interests of both. we do, however, have serious concerns about internal developments in turkey, already mentioned here by colleagues. in order to make this new momentum last, it must be clear to both sides that the accession process is merit-based, with respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedom at its core.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, it is one year since the political blunder of withdrawing the waste package, and now we know where we stand. we have, first of all, a new legislative waste proposal which is slightly weaker than the one we had before, and i assume that the commission expects parliament to increase the level of ambition and to pick up the fight with the council. i would tell the commission that i am willing to do so. secondly, we have an action plan, but i am afraid it is an action plan in which the actions are to be limited to within the berlaymont building. it is a sort of weaker, copy-paste version of the roadmap to resource-efficient europe that we had in 2011, so we have had not a two-year delay but a four-year delay. i really expected, after the very strong language from the commissioners, an acceleration in the transition towards a circular economy. i am afraid that is not happening with this action plan, so i urge the commission to step up its pace and really accelerate.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the proposal. commissioner, you may wonder why you are getting such critical remarks. well first of all, this is about the credibility of the commission. when, with a lot of clarity, you promised to be more ambitious, then we expected more ambition. my first question: we now have an action plan. we already have a communication, we have a strategy, we have a roadmap – we have a lot on the circular economy. what makes this action plan different from all the other communications that we have had before? that we would like to see clarified. secondly, on the legislative package, why did it need to be withdrawn one-and-a-half years ago? because the only thing you have added is an action plan that could have been added now. why did you need to withdraw the other plan? and if we then go into the contents of it, we see weaker targets, we see fewer targets in the legislative proposal, and one clear question is: where is the target for increasing our resource efficiency, the over-arching target that has been deleted? that is a very, very bad issue.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union. urban mobility therefore requires a local approach. but europe must provide direction, direction when it comes to meeting climate and environmental objectives, to promoting traffic flow and safety, and to allowing cities in europe to learn from each other. let us focus on intelligent transport systems, intercommunicating cars, clean electric transport, high-quality public transport. but it can be smarter, it can be cheaper. europe must be on the bike. many europeans travel very short distances in their cities. look at my home country, the netherlands, where we prefer to take the bicycle in the city rather than the car. it's better for your health, it's better for your wallet, and it's better for the quality of life in cities. so let's make a commitment in europe to raising awareness as a step towards more sustainable urban mobility.
it is now an open secret that the preparation of this report was not easy. the rapporteur is green and the greens have very explicit ideas on urban development and urban mobility. the main point of discussion was always subsidiarity. what will europe say to the cities? what does europe leave to the cities? subsidiarity will be a major point of discussion in the preparation of this report. nevertheless, mr president, we must innovate and we must make cities cleaner. we can't do that without classic cars, especially in the suburbs. but at least we have an own-initiative report with a result. good luck with that.
for the enf group not just in the last development year, but throughout its existence, the eu has been giving a lot of money to development aid. but the effect is never considered. but what effect can you expect to have if you give money to dictators in zimbabwe, sudan, sierra leone and mozambique? the last transfer of 236 million to mr mugabe was celebrated by him with a barbecue where two elephants ended up. i have to tell you, in small pieces. mr museveni bought a private plane for himself and 6 fighter planes for his personal army with eu money. and ali bongo of gabon has treated himself to a nice apartment worth over 100 million euros in paris. but the most devastating effect, mr president, is that the relationship of dependence between the public authorities and the citizens is being severed. a government needs tax money to exist, and citizens are only willing to pay taxes to a just government. this is the balance between fair administration and tax ethics. but if a corrupt government gets development money from outside, it can still govern and survive without the support of its taxpayers and it does not have to give in to the wishes of the people. so development aid works in the hands of corrupt governments. so today we are not closing the year of development, but the year of stagnation and corruption.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask my colleague - it is of course a trick that is often used here, namely to link everything together. we're talking about refugees, and we're talking about climate, because these people are coming here because the climate is getting worse. we need to give more development aid, because the climate is getting worse, and we need to give more development aid, because the refugees are coming here, one big brick so that no one understands it anymore. but when it comes to climate change: i come from the netherlands, the country that is the most vulnerable because it lies almost entirely a whole lot below sea level. so perhaps this is a chance - and i would like your answer to that - for the netherlands to finally get some money back from all the billions it has pumped into this circus.
according to the world economic forum, the world will hopefully experience gender equality by the year 2095. unfortunately, i'm gonna have to be 135 years old to do that, and frankly, i don't want to wait that long. member states such as france and germany have understood that boards and supervisory boards with more diversity produce better results. unfortunately, my own country, the netherlands, has not yet understood this, and that is depriving the dutch business community of the talents and the visions of top women who now have no chance to get past the application threshold for top positions. the luxembourg presidency has indicated its willingness to find a solution to the impasse in the council, but this must be done as a matter of urgency. we need a compromise proposal soon, because we cannot count on the dutch presidency on this point.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, contrary to the previous speaker, i do not think that this is about national culture or being left-wing or right-wing; that is rubbish. this is about the european union being a community of values. this should be a space where every single european citizen can live in freedom, make choices for his or her life without having to fear the authorities. the thing is, listening to the commission – not just now but during all the years in the past – the commission is taking a fairly narrow legalistic approach, and i understand that it does not have that many instruments to do anything else, but the commission is only assessing whether there is a strict violation of european union laws. but let us be fair – and i think the commissioner would agree with me – if we look at the state of hungary today, is it a place where people are free, happy citizens? no, because there is a government there that is fuelling xenophobia and homophobia, that is harassing the media, harassing ngos, harassing the opposition – just yesterday 17 people from the opposition were arrested on charges of defamation – restricting free research, and i could go on and on. maybe we do not really have a legal instrument to tackle this but we need a political instrument because, quite frankly, i too, like most of my hungarian colleagues probably, are tired of talking about hungary. soon we will be having similar debates about poland. i have serious concerns about poland as well. the polish government is saying: ‘oh, we think mr orbán is a perfect example to follow.’ what has the new parliament done? it has fired five judges and immediately appointed new ones. that makes me really concerned about the independence of the judiciary. so i do think that we need to move beyond monitoring the situation or silent diplomacy. i mean, mr timmermans’ silent diplomacy is so silent that i do not even see him here today. i really hope that with all the groups in this house we are going to elaborate the democratic governance pact, which will serve to monitor and debate the situation in all member states to ensure that we will have, or we will be, this community of values.
the commissioner said that there were enough reports and that there was enough research. we do not need any more mechanisms, and i share that opinion with you. there's a lot of things that are known, but they're not acted upon. you also say in the examples you give: viktor orban has indeed spoken about the death penalty, but the proposals have not materialized. that should be added, i should say. but is it not already a huge problem in itself, that it is always allowed to be talked about, that the conversation in europe is becoming louder and louder, that everyone is saying as a kind of disclaimer: i don't want to compare the refugees to the terrorists, but...? i have thrown away my speech, because i was reading this evening in the guardian that donald tusk, the president of the european council, says that every migrant who arrives in europe should be detained for 18 months so that we can take care of security, so that we can see whether that migrant is not actually a terrorist. president, commissioner, i understand that in the light of these debates in europe you do not have the room to use a rule of law mechanism. i can understand that. but i really do not know what to do in this european parliament when the president of the european council says: every migrant who enters must be detained for 18 months. of course, you will never get the support in the council for action against hungary or for action against poland, which is now dismissing its judges, if the president of the council can find this and it remains unchallenged. commissioner, i really only want one thing: i want us to take up tusk's remark here tonight that refugees, migrants should be locked up for 18 months, that we should take them back here all together.
dear hungarian citizens! don't believe everything they tell you. it is true that i represent the netherlands in this parliament, and i am very proud to be of hungarian origin. i want to tell all fidesz mps that i'm not speaking tonight about the hungarian situation out of revenge. but as europeans, we must stand up for european principles. if the eu taxpayers' money is being put into the pockets of orbán and his cronies, then it is right that we hold the fidesz government to account. if you really want to keep schengen, you have to know that it's a community of values, not just interests. the hungarian government has long ignored these values and has thus worked against the interests of the hungarian people. thank you very much.
soco is a british oil company which wants to drill for oil in virunga national park and this shows that there are no adequate european rules to prevent a european company from causing enormous damage in a natural area recognised by unesco which is a base for the local population and where tourism can also take place. it shows that we're not doing enough. you could say that, of course, it is mainly because the congo is a failed state. - that's right. but it is also another illustration of the resource curse and we could do more about it. you yourself mentioned the legislation on conflict minerals. it's not about oil. it's about minerals, but then again, it's in europe. the european commission has only made a proposal for voluntary certification. that's a lot faster. i think the solution to this kind of resource curse is: really tough legislation.
modern economies run on carbon-free nuclear energy, on oil or gas or coal. because industrial societies require energy, and that was the case before the european union existed. the eu's energy policy is based on article 194 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states - quite sensibly - that member states are responsible for their own energy supply. no one knows better than those countries what is needed, because they have had centuries of experience in this area and the treaty is clear on this. it is explicitly stated that the european union may not interfere with the exploitation of the energy resources of a member state, nor with the choice of energy sources of a member state, nor with the structure of its energy supply. but the european commission has come up with plans for a common energy union, and it must also deal with poverty reduction and climate action in addition to energy. but it is thus engaged in a fight against sovereignty, because, ladies and gentlemen, a limited choice is not a free choice and that free choice is guaranteed in the treaty. and that makes this plan a violation of that treaty. so we have governments that no longer follow their own laws, and that seems to me to be a bad thing. almost even more sickening is the enthusiasm with which the european parliament embraces this plan. does no one here realize that this plan is illegal? of course you are aware of that, but the european parliament has found a new toy with this and that may cost something, the rule of law for example.
i also thank all the chairmen, without naming them, for their presence here. i think it is important that the debate on the eurozone as a whole can be held here in all its openness and with all its differences. we have already stated in previous reports of the european parliament: the transparency, democratic legitimacy and ownership of the eurozone's governance must be improved. i thank the president of the european commission for some concrete suggestions on our organization. many of these were also in mrs berès' report. i am glad that he mentioned the semester week as one of the key points in setting priorities in the european debate. that semester week is, of course, with the national parliaments and is about who has what responsibility. i found it interesting in that context that our president said that the ep would stand for a 'full right of veto' - something i have not often encountered in our texts, to be honest - and that the president of the eurogroup came up with the unambitious 'the european parliament can make full use of its prerogatives according to the treaty'. we in the epp think that the truth lies somewhere in the middle. what we envisage for the future is a real debate at european level on convergence guidelines, the main lines of policy under codecision. but let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, as long as member states share financial responsibility for bailing out other member states, those member states will also have to have a say in decisions and policies. we cannot pretend that we can only fight for this here at european level. i have two other points of substance. one point concerns the euro area. this debate must be about what the germans so nicely call "standort europa". and yes, dear colleagues of the socialist group, this is about investment, but please tell me that this cannot be public investment based on ever more debt. the second point concerns the completion of the banking union and the relationship between risk sharing and risk reduction. the president of the eurogroup has said that both must go hand in hand. my question is whether there is not a difference in timing, whether the one thing, namely that reduction and the proof that it works in europe, is not a condition for being able to take the next step in that risk sharing? (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue-card answer.– that was not a question, but a statement. as long as this debate continues to centre around one-liners such as ‘we need convergence’, yes, we all agree. we disagree about how we get there. i think the commission had the right policy mix on how to get there, and – as the president of the eurogroup has said as well – it is a mix of investments and responsible policies. what i miss in this debate is that one political group wants to focus on only one element, and the other on only the other elements. we should be honest and say we need this mix and that this also requires painful decisions in the member states. why can you not admit, for example, that it is a good thing to lower debt, while at the same time stimulating investment? it baffles me that i cannot get some political groups to say we should talk about that.
"blue card" question. what is it? it is remarkable that mrs berès' contributions are virtually always identical. she is always very good at telling us what is lacking in solidarity, what is lacking in the relationship with the european parliament and the powers that the european parliament does not have enough, but i never hear her talk about the crux of the matter, namely the financial and economic position of france, where her government is now in power. france has been falling short for years when it comes to meeting the criteria of the stability and growth pact, and has been lagging behind in the upswing of the economy for years. why is it i never hear you shake your hand in your own bosom?
thank you, mr president, and welcome mr dijsselbloem as president of the eurogroup. it is a historic moment that we have a truly democratic debate on the economy of the entire eurozone. i think that we as the european parliament should also look a little more closely at our procedures to make that debate a real debate, because you will be here for another hour, mr dijsselbloem. but i would ask you to take a more serious look at the democratic deficit in the eurozone. if i hear you in the second chamber, you're basically saying: it is going very well, there is no democratic deficit in the eurogroup. the european parliament can have a good debate, i am sure, and the various national parliaments are also talking about the eurozone. - that's not true. - no. there is no real discussion in any national parliament about the economic state of the euro zone. each country has its own national debate, looks at its own situation, but no one looks at the situation of the eurozone as a whole. this requires clear democratic control for the eurozone. that is what the debate in the european parliament is about. if you also think that more needs to be done, then you will have to advocate that not only here in strasbourg, but you will also have to articulate and defend the role of the european parliament more clearly in the hague. because you too have a contribution to make to the democratic quality of the whole of the eu and the house of commons can do better. i am very curious to know what you think exactly of the commission's proposal to look at an aggregate fiscal stance, either the whole eurozone situation, or whether fiscal policy is procyclical or anticyclical. i have heard you say that in the hague, but not yet here in strasbourg. and according to the recommendation, the surplus countries must also take the lead, the surplus countries must clearly invest more themselves. so this is also about the netherlands. do you intend to take action in the netherlands as a surplus country, so that the eurozone as a whole can function better?
this emu lays the foundations on which a huge crack has been created from day one. the socioeconomic relations between the member states are far too diverse. the eurozone is far from an optimal currency area. and enforcement is nothing. for years now, the criteria of the stability and growth pact have been grossly violated by a number of countries, and greece, which is the leader, has a huge debt of 175% of gross national product, and that country is being saved by more loans and the sale of cutlery - i think silverware is too generous a word - the sale of cutlery such as the port of piraeus. the chinese are the laughing third, whereas debt relief and a fresh start with a currency of their own would really help the greeks. in short, emu must indeed make a paradigm shift. look at options like debt relief, look at sanctions, and invest more in the relationship with countries outside the euro. if you do that, you will build a credible emu.
the chairmen who were present this morning are no longer here, but i would like to address vice-president dombrovskis. it's been brought up a few times today: the absence of the president of the ecb, mr draghi, has a heavy responsibility in overseeing monetary policy. and he also keeps saying, i cannot do that unless we work simultaneously on structural reforms and on a balanced budgetary policy. mr. draghi is putting everything he can into it. he's blowing 60 billion into the european economy every month with his super bazooka. basically, like a kind of bodybuilder using growth hormones, we use this as financial growth hormones. i think it is unhealthy, because if you do not work on good nutrition and training your body at the same time - i will compare that to structural reforms and budgetary policy - you will end up with a disastrous legacy. mr draghi said: "i'm gonna do whatever it takes". is it not time for the commission to say: "we'll do whatever it takes" and are you not going to go even further with the member states who are constantly ignoring the country-specific recommendations? mr. dombrovskis has a fantastic track record in his own country. so i would like to call on him to go further with mr moscovici in the commission and say, as mr draghi has done: "we'll do whatever it takes".
many people in europe are unable or barely able to keep their heads above water and have been hit by the storm of the economic crisis. it is therefore the task of european politicians to get the economy on its feet so that it can weather new storms. the european commission is laying sandbags. the attention paid to the budgetary impact for the euro area as a whole is good. the proposal to complete the banking union is also welcome, as is the recommendation to countries with current account surpluses to encourage investment. yet, the sandbags show exactly where the holes in the dikes are. budgetary prudence and financial fragmentation have made adjustment slow, unbalanced and therefore costly in terms of growth and high unemployment. it seems that the ecb is the only one responsible for getting the economy back on track. moreover, the potential for growth and jobs is lower than ever. investment is 20% lower than before and public investment has been cut, while interest rates are lower than ever. showing sandbags is not enough. we need a european delta plan for a democratic and united eurozone so that everyone can keep their heads above water and a new storm cannot threaten us again.
in writing. ‒ the decision to abstain as a member of the pvda in the vote on paragraph 32 of this resolution is based on two considerations. firstly, this paragraph is merely positive about the opportunities that an energy chapter in ttip could bring to the eu, without naming the concerns, reservations or conditions to be attached to such a chapter. the energy chapter of the trade agreement with the usa should also deal with products which pollute the environment, such as shale gas and tar sands oil. secondly, the fact that the americans are shielding their fossil fuels from the world market is one of the eu's offensive interests in the negotiations. if ttip can provide europe with access to us oil reserves, it will make europe less dependent on the middle east and russia for its oil and gas. this paragraph did not meet the concerns of the european parliament's pvda delegation, but we do not want to reject the inclusion of an energy chapter in ttip, which is why i abstained.
for the enf group by admitting and inviting asylum seekers without limitation, the european union has brought on itself a new crisis. and brussels' response to a crisis is always the same: more european union. the achievement of a european superstate, a united states of europe, is and will remain the ultimate aim of the european elite. there are no longer any frontiers, vetoes have been surrendered and the national currency has been exchanged for the euro. the plan to set up an eu border guard is the next step in dismantling the nation state. and you know damn well what you're doing. because a country that cannot control its own borders and puts its fate in the hands of the european union is no longer the country that all the euro-lovers want. countries already need the consent of brussels if they wish to control their own territory. with this proposal we are losing effective control and are one step closer to becoming a european superstate. this proposal will create more fortune seekers, more terrorists and more islamization of the once beautiful continent of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. finally, mr president, the netherlands is a nation state, a sovereign country, and it must remain so. the pvv wants the netherlands to control its own territory. we want to decide for ourselves whether, how, when and to whom we close our borders. that is the only solution, nothing more and nothing less.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, on behalf of my whole group – mr duncan, please note – i would like to call this long-awaited agreement a truly historic agreement. it is legally binding, in so far as international agreements can be. it has a strong long-term ambition of 2°c, but it actually mentions 1.5°c, not forgetting the five—year review mechanism and the strengthening action that comes with it. it is an irreversible step towards a low—carbon economy and – even more importantly – it is a huge signal to the financial world that only zero-carbon solutions will pay off. that is truly important. let me also congratulate both minister dieschbourg, through mr gira, and commissioner arias cañete for their important role in paris. the eu truly built a bridge between the developing world and the developed world, and that showed in the end. however, to draw attention to one negative point as well, i believe that europe unnecessarily endangered the outcome by again being too reluctant on committing to financial donations. again it showed how important it is that we have our own financial mechanisms through which donations from europe do not depend on the mood of our ministers of finance. it is true that paris is just paper. the real work starts today. the most important thing is that all 195 countries that are going to sign the agreement implement their national plans, and we have to monitor that implementation. this applies to the eu as well. therefore my final question is what does paris mean for the eu’s own policies in the future? i urge the commission very rapidly to analyse the paris outcome and to see what it means for our 2020 objectives, our 2030 objectives, and even what it means for 2050 because what we do know is that the figure of 1.5°c is linked to the upper limits of our 2050 target of 95%, and that has to be translated into all other policies.
the climate agreement was adopted by consensus in paris last saturday. the french presidency deserves credit for this. never before have 195 countries pledged to work on climate change. and the approach of countries deciding what they can contribute, the indc, has certainly helped. the treaty calls for "two degrees and the aim of 1.5 degrees". that's a good start, but let's not fool ourselves into thinking we're already there. i remind you that we are already at a temperature rise of almost 1° celsius. the philippines is currently experiencing a hurricane. small islands are worried about their survival. president. - i welcome this agreement, let me be clear. but i also think the fossil fuel industry lobbyists are getting a big christmas bonus because of this climate deal. the agreement is not really binding and the reins are not in the balance. the fossil fuel industry is allowed to continue to make profits from oil. we're not going to stop producing carbon, we're going to capture it and store it. air and sea transport are not covered by this convention. it's business as usual with all the risks that go with it. and the absence of a compensation mechanism for developing countries is also a missed opportunity and an embarrassment to the western world. we are still evading our historical responsibility. this agreement should be a starting point for further action, not an end point. we need more ambition. we need to move away from fossil fuels and towards alternative, sustainable sources of energy. we need to be wise and more economical with our energy. insulating homes would be a good start, but it's also a lot of work. it is therefore regrettable that commissioner cañete has already said that he does not want to increase the targets for 2020. i call on the commissioner to take action now, when the momentum is there and everyone feels that something has been achieved. don't listen to your friends in the oil industry too much. european efforts are moving in the right direction. we're meeting our 2020 goals. let's commit to a 50% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank commissioner arias cañete for his job well done in paris. we know that we have been critical now and then, but if you do a job right we will also acknowledge that, so thank you very much, commissioner, from the green group too, for your job well done. the same goes for carole dieschbourg, and i am sure you will pass on to her the compliment for getting the job done. but, this now means, of course, that we have to start our work at european level. we all know that the agreement in paris states we want to stay well below 2°c, with efforts to achieve a ceiling of 1.5°c. that means something, because all eu policies at this moment are based on the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) scenario that gives a 50% chance of staying below 2°c. all the targets we set are for a 50% chance of staying below 2°c. so if we now agree to stay well below 2°c, and even to achieve 1.5°c, it really means we have to step up our own efforts. in that sense, commissioner arias cañete, i was in a good mood after the weekend but then i heard your press conference yesterday, and it was a bit disappointing to hear you say, more or less, that we would leave the extra ambition to the next commission. no! to say that would really be to burn your legacy one day after paris – and that would be a pity. what you need to say is, first of all, that there was a pledge that europe would move to minus 30% in 2020 if there was a global deal. well, there is a global deal: so europe can move to minus 30%. secondly, we need an impact assessment. what does 1.5°c mean – especially bearing in mind that, this morning, parliament adopted a binding 40% efficiency target for 2030. what does that mean? there too we need more information. on aviation also there was a slight mistake in your presentation yesterday. if the international civil aviation organisation (icao) does not deliver next year, then that means the eu will re-include aviation in the emissions trading scheme right away. no discussion – it is just the law – we will put it in the ets if icao does not deliver.
the participants in the paris conference are patting each other on the back for an agreement which has yet to prove its worth. because let's look back to kyoto. what did it cost us? the amount of the loan is eur 1 200 billion. and what did it accomplish? the warming was prevented by 0.017°. so not a great score. but there will be enough people who will benefit from this agreement. because the green entrepreneurs, as they like to call themselves, will see their profits increase with the environmental demands in their hands; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. the taxpayers, and especially the dutch taxpayer. so mr eickhout, if he already pays taxes in the netherlands, you will pay. so on behalf of the dutch taxpayer, thank you very much!
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, anneliese dodds and luděk niedermayer, for all the incredibly hard work they have put in. there are very good intentions, but we are not there yet, because there is a global problem. we are not going to achieve everything in the world by putting a kind of fiscal cordon around europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals. so i would actually like to encourage mr moscovici - unfortunately he is not here - to take inspiration from what his colleague mr fabius has recently achieved, namely to bring together all the countries of the world in one agreement where it seemed unlikely; the commissioner should also try to do the same in the field of taxation. and i would also like to emphasize that we have to go full steam ahead with tax 2 - it almost sounds like a sequel to an earlier movie; it must not become a weak copy of tax 1. i agree with mr moscovici: we have to pay tax where the value is added. the only criteria we have to discuss are those in this report.
- i'm the reporter. first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks to the shadow rapporteurs and all others directly involved in this eu/china report for the constructive, valuable cooperation. the report deserves the support of parliament, as it addresses the crucial eu-china relations in their full breadth and depth. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in writing this report, i gratefully drew on the expertise of foreign correspondents in china. their reporting contributes to the public image of china in europe to a considerable extent. however, the serious obstacles faced by foreign journalists in china are counterproductive. of course, chinese media can now operate in europe with complete freedom. we are fully behind that. hence my unsuccessful plea for an amendment for mutual media freedom between the eu and china. i regret this omission in the report. a previous report did mention it. equally important to the report was the academic input i received. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. inaccurate western translations or portrayals of chinese political positions can be misleading. the report mentions two cases of this: it is about the universality of human rights and the rule of law. as far as the rule of law is concerned, the chinese government does not object to this western translation, but president xi jinping does not leave any ambiguity about the fact that his country will not adopt a western style of law. and as for china's position on the scope of human rights, it was officially stressed recently this summer that beijing is committed to, and i quote, "combining the principle of the universality of human rights with the reality of china's national circumstances". both examples underline the need for europe to know and recognize chinese political positions accurately in order to ensure an adequate and fair development of relations. the eu and china, in their strategic partnership, can mean a great deal for each other's citizens, i have no doubt about that. the report goes into great detail on this. but this requires an open attitude on both sides, both to oneself and to the other. a solid foundation for this mutual openness is above all a sincere interest in each other and in the mutual welfare. i hope that this report will deepen and strengthen european-chinese relations!
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, developing a strategic partnership with china is not an option: it is simply a necessity. you cannot just ‘choose’ to cooperate with the second biggest economy in the world, the most populous country in the world and a very important trading and financial power. we share with china the same interest in stability concerning the political environment and the economic and financial environment, and we share the interest of keeping the world economy stable. so we need dialogue with china. we need it in different areas and it is clear, as was mentioned here, that there is still room for improvement in many areas. that was also underlined in the report. it is true too that, as a trading partner, china has to play by the rules. having an open market also means respecting certain rules, including no dumping practices. i was very sensitive, as you know, to what you said on steel. luxembourg is also a steel producer, and we gave a very clear signal because we organised a special council on this issue. it is obvious that we do not want the european steel industry to be destroyed. in this dialogue with china, as i said, we have to tackle a lot of questions, including human rights. human rights have to occupy an important place in this dialogue. coming to the question of investment, it was agreed at the last summit that a possible free trade agreement should be negotiated in the longer-term perspective, and we consider that the successful conclusion of these investment negotiations could also be seen in the framework of multilateral and plurilateral trade negotiation. concerning other negotiations – and especially the launch of the taiwan and hong kong investment agreement negotiations – the commission adopted the communication on its trade for all strategy on 14 october 2014, underlining the importance of asia for our trade and investment relations. the communication recognises that, operating in an increasingly integrated regional supply chain, eu investors in east asia should benefit from a broader network of investment agreements in the region. building on the investment provisions under negotiation with china, the eu will explore, and i quote, ‘launching negotiations on investment with hong kong and taiwan’. thank you for this very useful and stimulating debate. the view of the european parliament, as expressed in the report and also in the contributions here, provides valuable food for thought in the process of developing the new global strategy on foreign policy and security which is on the way, and for updating our tailored strategic approaches to important partners such as china. i have also noted that parliament has requested an annual report on eu-china relations. i would like to emphasise that we are all well aware of the need to keep track of the implementation of policy commitments in the eu-china context. that is why we agreed, at this year’s eu-china summit, to create a senior officials’ mechanism to review progress on a regular basis. we would be glad to keep the european parliament closely informed in that regard.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i appreciate that very much and i hope to hear again tomorrow exactly what you have all said, but i found it stimulating that you have dealt with this report in such a substantive way and also looking to the future, because changes are indeed happening fast. i would like to make two points, madam president, which i very much welcome. first of all: the neue zürcher zeitung reported last saturday, through its correspondent matthias müller - and i thought that was a welcome development - that a dark side of the one-child policy, which is now a thing of the past, was that millions of citizens were not registered. they're called the black ones. it is probably 13 million people, of whom 8 million were not actually registered because the parents could not pay the fine for exceeding the one-child limit. they could not go to school, they could not move freely, they had no social security. a reform commission under president xi jinping is now going to fix this. a very important first step in that so-called hukou system and second-class citizenship for the hundreds of millions of migrant workers in urbanized china. i welcome beijing's starting now, because it is an extremely complicated and complex process and we in europe must keep a close eye on the complexity of the whole of that society and the burden of the past. now i come to the burden of the past: i fully agree with the conclusion of religious expert and sociology professor fenggang yang who says: there's been one miracle in china, the economic miracle, but there's also been a second miracle, which is the religious revival and especially the flourishing of chinese christianity. you can understand that as a committed protestant i find this an extraordinarily positive point in chinese development, a second miracle.
i thank commissioner thyssen for being here and thank you for your clear explanation. let me say first of all that i entirely agree with mr pirinski and that i regret that we in this parliament too always talk about social europe, about a triple a status for social europe, but that we always have the debates on this at the end of the day. i know that mrs thyssen is not talking about the agenda of parliament, but it would be good to have a good discussion together about that. mrs thyssen, thank you very much for your explanation. i am sorry, as are many of my colleagues here, that we are not discussing concrete proposals today, but i imagine you are sorry too. i am at least fully aware of the external factors which make it difficult to present this package this week. however, we look forward to doing so as soon as possible. that is a promise you made from the first hearing and one we will also keep; that will be done in good consultation, of course. what surprises me about this debate today is that it is about a number of things. but labour ability is so much more than just social dumping and more than just the posting of workers directive. we must ensure that, especially for citizens in border regions, the daily reality of operating across borders really does provide added value. if we cannot achieve this for people in border areas, it will be very difficult to find a european base to tackle the major challenges. there's gonna be a lot of work to do.
in october, commission president juncker made it clear: equal pay for equal work must be the starting point for this union. and the package is ready. your work is done, including a review of the secondment directive. but the commission has fallen on its knees before the british. the labour migration package was in both juncker's political priorities and the commission's work programmes for 2015 and 2016, and yet we are here today without a proposal and without a date. it is not possible that the juncker commission, the self-styled commission of the last chance, should be more sensitive to the concerns of david cameron than to the concerns of ordinary people and ordinary workers.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask my colleague a question. he speaks very loudly about the responsibilities we have in the reception of so-called war victims or refugees. how many refugees has he taken in his house and how is that going right now?
the eu counter-terrorism coordinator gilles de kerchove suggests that member states should take in and rehabilitate returned jihadists. we need to have special programs as an alternative to prison. this proposal has no respect for the dead of bataclan, for the dead of sinjar, for lee rigby, for muath al-kasasbeh and for all those other victims of the beasts here called "veterans". president, a vile and insane plan that puts the safety of our citizens at risk. perpetrators of beheadings, rapes, torture and slave trade are not veterans. they are enemies who spread islam through death and destruction. i propose to the council of ministers an alternative proposal: throw them out, keep them out and close all national borders.
of all the subjects, one, the british referendum. donald tusk wants to have a conversation about british wishes without taboos. that is no doubt very good for the mood of the conversation, but dangerous as a starting point. the desire to restrict the rights of eu migrants runs counter to the idea of free movement. it would be better to tackle the dark side of free movement, the shameless exploitation, the unfair competition. it is therefore disappointing that the commission has not yet come forward with a proposal for a revision of the posting of workers directive. having said that, a discussion of reasonable wishes is more than welcome. we want a europe which allows for, and even protects, national identity, so that a large majority of the british people feel at home in the european union. that message must be the result of a conversation, so that david cameron and his people can finally and with conviction campaign for a yes.
mr president, the list of real problems and threats to people’s universal rights is long and daunting: restrictions on speech, discrimination against women, threats to civil society. on the other hand, european instruments, guidelines, programmes and budget lines offer many opportunities for solutions. in reality, their success and the ability of the eu to push for real change depends on our willingness to lead politically. we can only lead credibly if it is by example. as we speak, in europe today refugees and asylum seekers are treated and talked about in inhumane ways. that does not do justice to the painful lessons we have learned in history or to the promise this continent has for the next generation. human rights are too often treated as a soft issue while i believe it is in our interest, and of course it is our responsibility, to be a beacon for those who are facing repression, intimidation, violence, torture or even death. particularly the young generation growing up in, for example, north africa and the middle east, looks to europe and sees a lot of deal making – deals with turkey on refugees, deals with iran on the nuclear problem. we cannot allow these deals and our interests to overshadow the key issue of human rights. i really want to object to this kind of cynical deal-making and urge all of us to recognise that we are at a critical moment in a changing world and it is important that we give meaning to our responsibilities. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i understand that you are seeking a kind of provocation to express your criticism of greece, and you are free to do that, but i really think that we are at a critical moment where we have to look for real solutions. i see that in more cooperation, in giving humane shelter to asylum seekers and people fleeing violence in the middle east, but also in finding solutions to those wars. it cannot be that we only recognise the importance of doing something when the challenge of violence through terrorism, or the challenge of asylum seekers through refugees, touches our own territory. our role in this world is connected to that of others, and we have to work together in europe to come up with real solutions.
mr lambrinidis, as rapporteur for eu-china relations, i have consulted with you in the preparation of this report and i have two things to say to you. one case is about china, the other is about something else. paragraph 36 of this report, if i may summarize it, speaks of fruitless human rights dialogues with the people's republic of china and actually urges you and your staff to revise the human rights strategy. i understand that you cannot answer me directly in this setting, but if you would be so kind as to give a written answer to these two questions, i would be very grateful. because, yes, we have to move on. what exactly is the status of the human rights dialogue with china? for the second case, i appeal to you: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the report by mr glinne, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it. palestinian christians are in a pariah position in gaza. i would like you to investigate this and inform us of what we can do about it.
for the greens/efa group the newspapers across the ocean are full of reports about "the donald", presidential candidate donald trump. he wants to rigorously close the american borders to muslims. his response to the san bernardino shooting is to blame the followers of one faith and label them all as suspects. we have our own donald, the president of the european council, donald tusk. and our donald found it necessary to give an interview in europe's most influential newspapers in which he states that all migrants entering the union should first be detained for 18 months in order to be thoroughly screened. he said: it is not just about limiting the flow of refugees, do not underestimate the security aspect, international and european laws have an 18-month rule. you can and should detain migrants as long as their screening lasts. apart from this being a sign of incredible ignorance, i am particularly concerned about the way in which donald tusk has dismissed refugees and migrants as a security risk. the difference with trump is not that big. do you know the real difference between "the donald" and our donald? in the contradiction! trump got a callback. in his own conservative circle, he was made clear that they didn't speak that way in that party, that they didn't accept this kind of stigmatizing remarks, and that it was in violation of article 1 of the u.s. constitution. where were our government leaders with their corrective remarks? why haven't i heard from cameron, renzi, hollande, rutte? they should have said: donald, you're setting the wrong example. this is not how we treat refugees and this is how we spread fear among our people. mr president, you know the law, i know the law, the commissioner knows the law, mr schmit knows the law. donald didn't know the law, but who was tusk really speaking for? minister schmit, can you clarify that? does luxembourg support the statements made by the president of the council? is locking up migrants on arrival a proposal that we can hear at the summit tomorrow as one of the last things you want to give us for christmas? president tusk is justifying the laziness of the member states. do nothing and wait for the wind to blow. mr. president, it's not over, but one thing we know for sure: we cannot expect anything from donald tusk, the president of the council, before christmas, and unfortunately not after christmas either. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – i think the question is: ʻdo you not agree with me, madam?ʼ, and the answer is: ‘no, i don’t!’ i think also your prime minister has a certain decency in himself, not going about saying that we should lock up every migrant that comes here – a decency that leads to not putting more fear in people, fear that is illustrated by you, that will lead to more poverty and more terror in europe. that is my opinion. (applause)
hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers have found their way to the european union in the past year and the asylum tsunami is also sweeping my country. so far, more fortune seekers have entered the netherlands than in all of 2013 and 2014 combined, with all the consequences of that. this has got to stop. the netherlands is a functioning state of law where suspects, criminals, terrorists and asylum seekers are treated fairly. and yes, we reserve the right to place asylum seekers in immigration detention. alien detention is important. if it is up to my party, the party for freedom, the safety of the dutch citizen comes first and we apply this to both asylum seekers who are not screened for safety and to those who are processed or illegal. we shut them down or we lock them up. and we are the ones who decide that, not the european union. the pvv would prefer these asylum seekers not to come at all. the netherlands must close its borders.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. if not, then there is a real race to nature's attributes. it is a stalemate for the sector and i also think it is ethically wrong. plant material has no place in patent law; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the basic principle of the breeder's right is the full breeder's exemption. this allows growers to create variety upon variety. we must continue to safeguard this basic principle. commissioner, "no patent on life" is the word. i and my colleagues received a petition with that title with over 17,000 signatures. we are happy to pass on this petition to your colleague, commissioner bieńkowska. commissioner, it is high time that the loophole in the legislation is closed. clarity is necessary and urgent. the resolution calls on the commission to do so swiftly and properly. the commission is now taking action.
growers use natural properties of fruit and vegetables and other plants to grow further. this is used to create new flavors or colors in, for example, tulips or tomatoes. recently it has become possible to patent these natural properties. this is dangerous, and both growers and consumers can suffer. when someone naturally breeds a new trait in a broccoli or a tomato, you don't want someone to be able to patent it. you create a monopoly on a property of a vegetable or fruit and therefore also on our food supply. the natural properties of plants are no longer freely available to all growers. this jeopardises innovation and may have consequences for the variety of varieties. our small and medium-sized growers, farmers and gardeners are among the world's leading breeders of new varieties and developers of new seeds. seeds that are sometimes worth more than gold by weight. if you've really invented something, you should be able to patent it. but the natural properties of plants must be freely exploited. i raised this matter with the committee on agriculture two months ago. i am glad that a large majority of the european parliament now supports this call. i also call on dutch state secretary van dam to take action during the dutch presidency of the european union. the european parliament is loud and clear. the commission must give a lot of room for innovation and ensure that the natural properties of plants remain available to everyone.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group vegetables, grains, legumes and fruit are the basis of a healthy and wholesome diet. these are of excellent quality in europe and for centuries farmers and later breeders have been storing the seeds and products every year to make new and improved products. for example, the breeding of those vegetable varieties has resulted in hundreds of varieties of potatoes. some are suitable for fries, some are suitable for mashed potatoes, and others are very suitable for growing in dry or very wet soil. we have a very, very proud sector and it is important that we keep these products, the seeds, freely available. that's important for biodiversity, that's important for innovation in this sector. and that cannot happen if agro-food companies apply for patents on products that are derived from essentially biological processes. nature's qualities belong to no one, or perhaps to everyone. but they certainly don't belong to monsanto and syngenta. it would be bad if these multinationals were to decide which varieties we should or should not grow in europe. these companies don't want competition and the market has no ethics. mr president, it is beyond words! farmers simply need to have free access to these seeds. that means, for example, an extensive grower exemption in european regulations. because if we continue down this path, we're going to create monopoly positions in our food supply, and those positions of power and the resulting loss of biodiversity are threats to our food security here and elsewhere in the world. commission, do your job, get a breeder exemption in the european patent rules. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, thanks to the development of new plant varieties, our farmers and gardeners are now able to feed 7 billion people. the preservation of small-scale breeders and their knowledge is of the utmost importance in order to guarantee employment and food security in the future. this knowledge is in danger of being lost now that the multinationals dominate the market. the cause is patent law. by patenting natural plant characteristics, the pond for small breeders is drying up. the commissioner, by granting only 20 patents, has already placed 900 varieties under the exclusive rights of the patent holders. that's a fact. it is almost always powerful non-european companies that have the capital to buy up plant traits on a massive scale, and then i think of monsanto. it was agreed in the breeders' agreement that no one should be prevented from developing varieties. that basic right has been violated. mr president, if the european commission does not act now, the processing industry will be monopolized. there is great unrest in the netherlands, i have brought this up many times here and i hope for a clear answer from our commissioner. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. in concrete terms, i simply propose that we start today by correcting the current gap in all the proposals through the amendments and the resolution. that is what is at stake today, and we must make that clear to each other. if we leave it as it is, nothing else will happen.
author. ibrahim halawa was arrested when he was seventeen. it's a child. there are international rules about how to deal with children in prisons. he's been through a few years now, and he's not doing so well. nor are the hundreds of people who have been arrested with him, people who are being brought to mass trials, who cannot even hear the proceedings, whose case has not been investigated at all because they are all charged with the same thing. this is egypt under el-sisi. this is also the egypt that many colleagues here say is "the egypt with which we should establish relations because it is our friend, our strategic partner in a troubled region, a partner that should help us to stabilise the region". we are sorely mistaken on that point. this is a country that is helping to destabilize the region and el-sissi is mubarak 2.0. people came out against mubarak after decades and decades of heavy repression and will do so again in the future and we are actually looking away. we now call attention to ibrahim halawa. we hope he is released, but we ignore what el-sisi and his government are doing to the local egyptian population. i want to mention three more names: rena nice, sue turton and dominic kane. they are european journalists who were convicted in the whole al jazeera case, when they were not there. they deserve justice, too.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in egypt human rights, the rule of law, the right to a fair trial and fundamental freedoms are trampled on, and el—sisi’s oppressive regime has too many victims. egyptians seeking freedom and democracy say that the repression is now worse than it was under president mubarak. the eu should not turn a blind eye, because cooperation without addressing human rights gives a false sense of stability and will prove unsustainable. do i believe that the muslim brotherhood seeks to advance justice, freedom, democracy and pluralism? no. i worry about the dogma and sectarianism of islamist politics. yet those muslim brotherhood supporters who demonstrated in 2013, as ibrahim halawa did, are innocent until proven guilty – or at least they should be. his human rights must be respected. a mass trial cannot be a fair trial. on sunday last, as one of the 420 co-defendants was not present, the trial was postponed. the circumstances in egyptian prisons are notorious. given the fact that mr halawa is irish and was 17 when he was arrested, we call for his release by presidential decree under egyptian law 140.
author.– mr president, our resolution here today reaffirms our commitment to and our friendship with the malaysian people and it is because of this commitment and friendship that we share our concerns here today: concerns about the sedition act which malaysia had committed to repeal, but instead renewed and strengthened; concerns about the new security act, which was adopted without any public debate or involvement of civil society and which gives widespread powers to the national security council to declare a state of emergency; and, more generally, concern about the atmosphere in which opposition politicians, journalists and civil society find it increasingly difficult to function. we share these concerns not because we enjoy criticising malaysia but because we feel that these issues are so important to mention and that they should be the starting point of a constructive dialogue both within malaysia and also in the bilateral relations between malaysia and the eu, especially at a time when our bilateral relations are growing ever stronger.
