madam president! your concern for human rights is well known. it cannot be that one country in the european union takes care of a third country national and grants him asylum, and then another member state deportes the same person to his country of origin where he is at risk of persecution. this is a violation of the principle of non-refoulement, which every member state should respect. today i am talking about a citizen of kazakhstan, muratbek ketebaev, who received political asylum in poland and is now detained and threatened with deportation from spain to kazakhstan. dear colleagues and friends! the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, prime minister renzi, in june you asked how the eu would look if we were to take a selfie. i am just wondering how the italian presidency would look today if it were to take a selfie, and my answer is that there would not be much in it – although that is not surprising, because from the very beginning there was going to be a minimalist legislative agenda reflecting the post-election situation. however, your presidency has managed to broker some agreements between parliament and the council on legislation, so let me enumerate some of these. first, money-laundering: the problem here is that the agreement reached on the fourth directive should not only address the burden on innocent people who have been tied up in red tape, but should also indicate how we are to tackle the billions of euros that go towards organised crime and terrorism. second, gmos: this is a highly divisive issue, and the deal we are going to vote on soon reflects the fact that some governments are definitely pro-gmo, while others are more cautious. third, the 2015 budget: it is true that you secured agreement on the budget, but that agreement still leaves significant unpaid bills. i think you missed an opportunity to take responsibility for this unsustainable situation. fourth, migration in the mediterranean: i think that is a plus for you. fifth, the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) talks. we are pleased that, under the italian presidency, the council declassified negotiating directives and, given last week’s publication of the legal proposals by the commission, it is fair to say that there is more transparency around the agreement, and people’s fears may be dispelled. all in all, if i were to give you a grade, i would give you ‘fair’. i do not know if you would be happy with that. probably not, but it is quite good, so congratulations anyway.
mr. chairman, please! we have heard a great deal of fine words about european solidarity since yesterday in this chamber (and in the debate today), but when our farmers needed solidarity, when they were hit by the russian embargo, our solidarity was 10% aid. it is in situations like this, when states that oppose the security of our states try to probe our resilience, our solidarity in the most peaceful way, that we should show that we are prepared to take on such challenges. so in the future, as we balance this half-year, we should act in a way that we are prepared to show our ability to help the security of our nations, the interests of our citizens, and also our loyalty to our friends.
in writing. the italian presidency of the council of the eu coincided with the elections to the european parliament and the election of the new european commission. however, this was not only time spent on organisational matters, although technical matters related to the start of the new institutional cycle were predominant. however, the last six months have seen less work in a purely legislative context, with a heightened debate on the eu's objectives and action programme for the coming years and the creation of a fund for strategic investments. the country holding the presidency during this period therefore has a special opportunity to be involved and to influence the union's programming debate. the title of the presidency's programme was a call for a kind of 'fresh start', which in itself suggested a willingness to tackle important european issues rather than focusing on organisational and formal issues. the programme worked very well with the european commission's current mandate guidelines a new start for europe, which helped send a strong signal to citizens that the eu is committed to positive change and ambitious improvements in its functioning. among the issues that the italian presidency decided to tackle were, inter alia, the anti-crisis policy and the related recovery of economic growth based on further deepening the integration of the internal market, the implementation of structural reforms and the promotion of investment.
member of the commission. - madam president, i am very glad to be here today. it has been a long road – close to five years – but we are almost at the end of our journey. some time ago i could not have imagined i would be standing here at the end of a successful second reading. i want to thank the rapporteur, ms frédérique ries, for her efficient steering. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs for their support during the discussions. these collective efforts helped us to reach the agreement with the council and to complete this task successfully. allow me to recall some facts about gmo cultivation in the european union. currently there is only one gmo authorised for cultivation in the eu. it is cultivated in five member states. nine member states have taken measures to prevent its cultivation in their territory, but these measures have not been considered scientifically justified by efsa. as a result, they are regularly annulled by national judges. this means that the countries wishing to ban gmo cultivation in their territory cannot do so. this is because the current legislation does not allow member states to take into account their national contexts and the views of their citizens. this creates extreme tensions between law, politics and public expectations. eu citizens, farmers and the biotech industry may feel that we do not address their interests. it also weakens the credibility of everyone involved in the process of gmo risk assessment at european level – namely efsa, the member states and the commission. this is why, in 2009, 13 member states asked for a solution. the commission proposed a legally sound and pragmatic response to this call in 2010. it had a dual objective: firstly to maintain a strong science-based eu authorisation system for gmos, securing uniform safety across the european union, and secondly to recognise – in full respect of the treaty – the freedom of each member state to decide whether to allow gmo cultivation in its territory. i am pleased that the text in front of you fully meets these two objectives. member states will have the final say on gmo cultivation, depending on their national situation. the member states that already cultivate gmos will be able to continue. those opposed will be able to restrict or prohibit cultivation in their territory. freedom of choice will be secured. the eu countries that cultivate gmos will have to implement measures to avoid cross-border contamination in neighbouring member states. the criteria used to assess the risk to the environment will be updated shortly. this will reflect the latest scientific and technical progress. let me stress that member states will still be able to adopt measures to address unforeseen risks that may be detected after a gmo is authorised. if you vote in favour of the legislative proposal on gmo cultivation, you will provide the member states with legally-sound tools to decide on gmo cultivation in their territory starting in spring 2015. the eu has repeatedly been asked to do more to live up to citizens’ expectations. i would like to believe this eu legislation is responding to the call. in this context, i would like to make the following declaration: when proceeding with the authorisation of gmos for cultivation, the commission will – in full respect of its obligations – take account of elements at its disposal, including the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos in their territory as provided for by this directive.
blue-card question. – the european union has diversity as a principle. do you not think that it is diversity that in one state there will be a gmo and in the other there will not?
madam president! we welcome the adoption of this agreement because the current legal situation is absolutely unacceptable. it is clear that every politician must consider the environmental, health, and above all the emotional and cultural aspects that exist in our countries. we welcome the fact that it will be up to the member states to adopt the appropriate legislation to prohibit or allow the cultivation of gmos. but does the agreement include all possible proposals? well, no, it wasn't. first, it does not, however, resolve the issue of the refusal to register a gmo crop in a member state. it seems that operators who want to introduce these crops will be able to claim rights through the courts, and this justification may be challenged. and secondly, i regret that the responsibility of the person introducing the gmo crop has not been established, because i know of cases where even an institution like the efsa (this was a different case, about emma, emma's predecessor) issued such a licence, and then it turned out that the medicine was unfortunately bad and caused a huge havoc. we also don't know exactly how these gm crops will affect human health.
the question asked by raising the blue card. do you not think that a ban on gmos at national level will result in fewer gmos in europe and that the public will be able to put more pressure on their own governments? this will help to reduce the spread of gmos in europe precisely by giving anti-gmo communities a stronger and more effective lever to pressure governments. in poland, there is such pressure and gmos are not and will not be.
madam president! today, there's a very important vote on genetically modified crops. the proposed draft directive allows member states to retain their competence to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. this is of particular importance for my country, poland, because the great diversity, the biodiversity of agricultural soils in poland and the absence of gmos are a great asset for the promotion of healthy nutrition and the export of very high quality polish agricultural products. our soils are capable of producing natural food, and the use of gmos would inevitably degrade them. fortunately, gmo crops are now banned in poland. poland is and must remain free from the cultivation of genetically modified food. member states have different attitudes towards gmos and the arrangements should be subject to their sovereign decisions.
madam president! the compromise reached on gmo crops allows member states to decide in accordance with their own interests, their specific situation and the opinion of their citizens. it is important to inform the public about what gmos really are and what effects they can have on agriculture, the environment and health. this issue should not be ideologised and politicized, but presented in accordance with the facts, available knowledge and research. the substantive discussion should allow the assessment of the real risks and possible benefits of gmo cultivation. it is a difficult debate and one that is stirring up great emotions in every member state. so, i think that supporting compromise is a way to facilitate internal dialogue and not to create a backlash in the community against a decision that's been imposed from the top down. it is important to emphasise that this compromise makes it easier for member states to ban gmo crops. further research is important as there is no consensus amongst scientists on the benefits and risks. the gmo crops must be completely safe and guarantee that the country where the genetically modified plants are grown will not infect the territories of neighbouring countries, organic and traditional crops. i hope that this approach will allow the politicized discussion to end and the government to make a rational, responsible decision that is best for the people.
madam president! genetically modified crops pose a risk to the environment and to human and animal health. in countries where gm crops have been grown for years, we can see how harmful these crops are, as confirmed by independent scientific studies. nevertheless, companies producing gmo seeds and plant protection chemicals are aggressively lobbying for gmos, seeking new markets, including in europe. the only effective solution is a total ban on gmos throughout the european union. i regret that instead of a ban, they have only worked out an agreement that is far from ideal. on the one hand, it gives member states the theoretical possibility of banning gmos, and i hope that my country, poland, that the government of this country, will take advantage of this possibility. but on the other hand, it opens the door to easy legalization of gmos in the future. the subject of genetically modified organisms should have been the subject of a thorough study by the committee on agriculture, and it was not. people don't want gm food on their plates, so politicians should listen to the public and ban gm food.
in writing. on 13 january 2015, a vote was held on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, subject to the jurisdiction of the european union. given the migratory nature of tuna stocks, this agreement is of strategic importance and will allow the european union to maintain the privileged relationship it has with the republic of seychelles. it is mutually beneficial for the economic development of mayotte and seychelles and respects the principles of the common fisheries policy and the iotc in the area of conservation of resources. i voted in favor of the resolution.
in writing. — transport policy is not only an issue which must be addressed at european or national level – it is also an important topic for the regions of europe. furthermore it has an impact on the economy of our union. therefore, i voted in favour of consultation with the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport.
in writing. - the 2011 transport white paper is a very ambitious document focusing on future challenges and initiatives that need to be taken immediately to effectively carry out a deep transformation of the transport system, to create a modern infrastructure and multimodal mobility supported by intelligent management and information systems. the book also sets out the objective of creating a system that is the foundation of economic progress in europe, characterised by a high level of competitiveness and savings. the committee on transport and tourism will shortly be examining the implementation of its objectives. however, it is clear to us today that the old challenges of european transport policy are still relevant and new ones are constantly emerging. the huge delays in the development of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe are keeping europe far from the objectives of the book. only by concentrating investment in the poorest regions will it be possible to build an effective single european transport area. in the hope of obtaining a complete picture of the state of infrastructure and its implications for citizens, i also supported today the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the white paper.
in writing. genetically modified crops pose a threat to the environment and to human and animal health. in countries where gm crops have been grown for years, the harmful effects of these crops are already evident, as is also confirmed by scientific studies. people don't want genetically modified food on their plates, so politicians should listen to the public and ban these crops. the only effective solution is a total ban on gmos throughout the eu. i regret that the union has not introduced such a ban. the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council is far from ideal. on the one hand, it gives member states the possibility of banning gmos and i hope that the polish government will use this right. on the other hand, it should be noted that this agreement does not open the door to easier legalization of gmos in the future. i voted in favour of the agreement because it improves the current legal order, which did not allow member states to prohibit these crops on their territory.
in writing. i support the decision of the european parliament to transfer all prerogatives concerning the authorisation of the prohibition of genetically modified crops to the member states. this is the way. it is for the member states alone to decide what is best for them. no more decisions being imposed by the brussels administrative machine. its previous decisions have already led to a crisis in europe. genetically modified crops are still an area of great uncertainty. therefore, member states are best placed to read the minds of citizens and decide whether to admit them. i also oppose all attempts by the european commission to punish countries where uncontrolled dissemination takes place. in conclusion, the less power the european commission has, the better the law in europe.
in writing. allowing member states to decide individually whether to grow gm crops is a wash of hands for the eu institutions and a discharge of responsibility. the european union imports crops, grains and feed from countries where gmos are allowed. the introduction of a ban on gmos in european crops would distort competition between eu growers and those from countries where they are authorised. the free hand of member states in deciding on gmos also distorts competition, including in the internal market. in some countries, gm crops will be grown, increasing yields and reducing costs, while in others, where they are banned, farmers will be less competitive with their neighbours who can use gmos. ordinary farmers will be burdened with the costs of political decisions that are not always backed by science.
in writing. the new gmo rules address member states that have banned or plan to ban the cultivation of genetically modified plants on their territory by providing a proper legal basis and facilitating the decision to restrict or ban gmo cultivation. however, this prohibition shall not apply to scientific research and the marketing of modified seeds. this is important in light of the fact that technologies using genetic engineering are widely used in medicine, in the production of medicines, including insulin, in the study of disease mechanisms, such as cancer, in transplantation and in many other fields. the new rules do not restrict countries that have been and are planning to grow gmos on a large scale. the ban on gmo crops remains a choice, depending on the local environmental situation and social attitudes. gmos are a great hope for humanity, but they also pose certain risks. therefore, the current regulations must be supplemented by national rules that ensure adequate control and safety of production using gmos and guarantee protection against contamination of other products and infection of the territories of neighbouring countries. the new rules will allow countries such as poland, where agriculture is based on traditional, organic farming methods, to exploit the full ecological and health potential of crops. the key is to ensure that healthy food is competitively priced so that it is not a luxury item only available to the richest.
in writing. - the compromise provides that member states may prohibit the cultivation of 'gmos' or groups of gmos on specific grounds. the agreement also introduces mandatory measures for those countries that allow gmo cultivation to protect the border areas of neighbouring countries, unless such measures are not necessary due to geographical conditions. that is why i supported the compromise proposed, which, although far from ideal, provides that member states may decide not to allow the cultivation of gmos in all or part of their territory. member states should be free to decide whether or not to promote agricultural products based on organic farming. for my country - poland - this is a particularly important advantage, as agricultural production can boast healthy, natural food.
in writing. on 13 january 2015, a vote was held on a directive allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. different member states have different views on gmos and the decision on this should be a matter for their sovereign decision. so far, poland has remained free of gmo crops, which are banned. allowing this type of crop would inevitably expose polish soils to degradation. i voted in favour of a draft directive which would allow the regulation of the cultivation of genetically modified organisms at national rather than union level.
in writing. the gfcm's mission is to promote and recommend measures to develop and conserve living marine resources and to promote their wise management in the mediterranean, the black sea and the waters adjacent to these waters. the gfcm recommendations adopted in 2011 and 2012 go beyond the protection already granted to these species at eu level under the habitats directive and other union acts and provide for specific obligations with regard to registration and reporting, so their incorporation into community law will contribute to the sustainable development of the marine environment and fish stocks. however, we must not forget that the interests of fishermen, the fishing industry and coastal communities also need to be taken into account. therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal to reject those standards in the commission proposal which are more stringent than the gfcm recommendations.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the european parliament to mr donald tusk, president of the european parliament. this is the first time we have had the opportunity to meet you, and it must be said loud and clear, as you said today, that europe is facing many difficult challenges today. you also said that we do not live in boring times, we do not have that privilege, but you also mentioned polish solidarity, which won freedom in poland and which i also understand in the context of european solidarity. there is a lot of talk today about a plan to rebuild europe's economy, a plan to re-industrialize it and create new jobs. this plan - president juncker's plan, which is the subject of the last european council and which is coming to the fore here - is now facing a major challenge. this challenge is the energy situation in europe, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe. this is particularly evident in my country, poland. ladies and gentlemen, the polish government of the civic platform (the party of mr tusk, the president of the european council, who is here) has recently announced a plan to phase out coal mining, which is a major source of raw materials in poland, not only in poland but also in many countries of the european union, especially in central and eastern europe. this is very dangerous for our economy, this is very dangerous for many european economies, especially in the age of the climate package that has been adopted by the eu countries and accepted by the european council, and if there is no intervention, solidarity intervention within the eu countries on this issue, and financial assistance, it will lead to the loss of not hundreds, not thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but perhaps even more than a million jobs by eliminating many industries, especially the energy industry. today in poland, miners are striking in 11 mines, they're striking underground. their families are terrified because the prospect of closing down coal mines in poland means the loss of thousands, tens of thousands of jobs, the destruction of the homes of thousands of families, the loss of bread, the loss of the dignity that work represents for people - the work that they will lose as a result of these actions. i wanted to make an appeal today, but at the same time i wanted to ask a question, to make an appeal that the juncker plan, in the era of the adopted climate package, take into account the need for changes in the energy economy, take into account the need for necessary changes in the extractive industry, take into account them in the financial aspect, so that there is money for the modernisation of european energy, especially in those countries which, as a result of decades of communist governments, are still far behind today in terms of economic development, compared to the strong, large countries of the old european union. this is a huge challenge facing the union today, a challenge we must meet. i am calling for this and asking whether juncker's plan will take these needs into account, or will we in poland and in the countries of central and eastern europe see images like today's in poland of crying people, desperate miners, desperate people from the energy sector who are in real danger of losing their jobs? juncker should have built these places, not allowed them to be destroyed.
mr president, mr donald tusk says that there is nothing that is sure to improve the situation in europe. he is wrong. there is one way. when poland was occupied by the moscow-oriented socialists its rate of growth was 1%. when it became free it was 8%. now under the occupation of brussels-oriented socialists it is once again 1%. it is slightly better than the rest of the countries occupied by the european union, but slightly less than belarus. what must be done? our enemy is not in moscow: our enemies are in mosques, in the mosque of paris, in the mosque of marseilles. what we should do is reject socialism, abolish income taxes ruining industry, liquidate all social benefits attracting to europe the worst elements and demoralising all europeans, and reintroduce the death penalty. we cannot win the war when they kill us and we cannot kill them. in fact, if you are to survive, we must reject all the acquis communautaire. therefore, i think the european union must be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to welcome you to the european parliament on behalf of the polish delegation of the civic platform and the polish people's party. i greet you not with politeness, but with love. i think it's important for poland that the president of the european council is a former prime minister of the polish government. we may have different opinions on the views expressed here, but above all we want to express our respect for the country, its history, which you represent in this hall. many elements were discussed at the european council. what's most exciting, of course, is the investment. a colleague from the european left said that there are only savings, so when it comes to investments, there is a project, and i think that it should be developed very wisely. the question is whether this level of investment is to be 300 billion, or higher, as the polish finance minister says. perhaps the programme should be more consolidated in terms of the involvement of public funds as well. because we can sometimes suspect that some investments, particularly those funded by private funds, may be those investments that would have been made anyway, and that they will not necessarily be funded if public money is not also invested in them. i therefore propose that we discuss what this contribution from the member states should be and whether the contribution from the private sector should be more balanced. i also stress the importance of investments in the energy sector. we have different understandings of the energy basket, but we believe that energy security should come primarily from the resources of the european 28 member states, of which mr verhofstadt spoke here. and as for fiscal consolidation, we think that tax avoidance is a yes, but this consolidation of tax equalization, it's understood differently by different countries. and finally, the strategy for ukraine and russia. this country, which is a neighbour of the european union, needs help, not just humanitarian aid, not just help for the ukrainians who have suffered losses, but also development investment.
mr. chairman, please! in your speech you used the phrase 'the euro is our common currency', and the euro is not the currency of all the member states of the european union. it's the currency of most countries. the european union is also the united kingdom and denmark, which have signed a treaty stating that they do not want the euro, sweden, which voted in a referendum to postpone the introduction of the single currency indefinitely, and all are obliged to respect this decision, and poland, which in its constitution still guarantees the existence of its own national currency. mr president, you are not the president of some technical body of the european union, but of the european council, an intergovernmental body representing all the member states of the union. i don't know if this is interesting to you, but i hope that in your work you will respect all the countries of the european union, including those that have not adopted the single currency, and above all poland - our country.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to join in welcoming the new president of the european council, donald tusk, and wish him many successes that will become european achievements. your assumption of this important position shows that the boundary between the old and the new countries of the union is blurring. you are right that the european strategic investment plan is not a panacea for all the ills of the union, but it is a real plan with a chance of success, if, of course, the member states treat it with due care. parliament is ready to cooperate. public finance discipline and stability backed by smart investment will deliver growth. however, it is necessary to clearly state how the plan will be financed and how the funds will be available to future investors. the sooner the plan goes into effect, the better. hopefully, the work will be completed during the latvian presidency and the package will be operational before the holidays.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased that the european council, in its conclusions of 18 december, calls for unrestricted access to the crash site of flight mh17. why did the eu not make a similar appeal in the smolensk disaster? why was president tusk, as prime minister of the polish government, unable to react in the same way when the tragedy affected the highest figures in our country and their families? why did prime minister tusk not insist on the participation of representatives of the eu investigating authorities who had expressed their willingness to participate in the work of the technical commission during the investigation? as a result of your inaction, independent experts were denied access to the crash site, and the wreckage of the plane remained in the hands of russian experts. this situation fully illustrates the lord's duplicity and lack of concern for the welfare of the victims and their families. i regret that in two such similar cases the eu's response is very different.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by warmly welcoming president donald tusk here in the european parliament. i remember when, as prime minister of poland, he recently presented the founding of the polish presidency of the council, and then the main comments were also about the high bar and the great expectations that our prime minister not only met, but also moved the bar even higher. today, as i speak of the beginnings of our new prime minister, i am certain that he will not only surprise everyone again with his efficiency, but also with his new vision of the old europe. but, returning to the subject of today's debate, namely jean-claude juncker's €315 billion investment plan, the positive signal from the council is only the first small step towards rebuilding a strong europe. the investment plan is not a promise of success and growth in the european union, but an opportunity that we must seize. an opportunity for growth and jobs, and an opportunity that is up to the member states alone to make a success of. we cannot analyse planned investments in terms of another guarantee for the changes that citizens expect. so i'm very cautious about speculating on the success of the investment plan until we see the facts and analysis from the business and industry world. i am therefore among the millions of citizens who expect effective solutions, concrete and real policies. i know that with a new eu staff and a new president of the european council, all of this is possible.
mr president, madam high representative, time is running out for libya, certainly, although i appreciate greatly the efforts undertaken by bernardino león. similarly, i appreciate your leadership in this respect. i am very worried about the emergence of a self-proclaimed caliphate in darna and around the al bayda’ region, and also about disappearances of persons in libya. we are seeing the next stage of events with radical islamism there, and surely you need much more insight into this situation as well as cooperation within the european external action service.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i share your assessment of the situation in libya, and i would like to say that i share your assessment and your determination to resolve the situation. i share your view on social issues, the social situation, the way out for the people, which is very, very complicated at the moment, on the economic and political situation. i also share your concern that there is no chance of stabilizing the situation inside libya without outside support - without smart outside support. so let's imagine conflicts on religious grounds, and - within religion - also often religious or ritual, so i don't share the voices that were heard in this room, so as not to interfere. yes, we have to be present, it's also in our interest, it's happening too close, it's too important for us economically. but it's important that we just be effective in this call for order. let's find a formula that will make us a good candidate for restoring peace and calm in libya.
mr. chairman, please! less than five years ago, the focus of european and world attention was on the possibility of a change in the socio-political situation in north africa and the middle east, and we looked at this opportunity with hope. today, that hope is very little, and libya is a good example of that, because the civil war, and the total political destabilization of the country, the economic collapse, the rampant crime -- that's the image of libya today. i therefore believe that we as the european union, in cooperation with other international organisations, should take on the responsibility to do everything possible to bring the internal situation in libya under control as soon as possible. it is above all of great strategic importance: it is a country that is in a very important part of the world, especially in the context of the threat of islamic fundamentalism. the situation of the civilian population and refugees is alarming. in my opinion, there is no point in waiting and we have to start talking seriously about libya, and we have to start supporting this country seriously.
mr. chairman, please! today, libya as a state is practically non-existent. the arab spring also sparked riots in libya against longtime gaddafi's rule. these were governments that were being criticized by the european union. gaddafi was certainly not a democrat. he certainly supported terrorism, but after the u.s. intervention in april 1986, he radically curtailed that activity. it was grotesque, yes, but it gave the libyans a kind of peace and quiet. the 2011 uprisings were too weak to change the regime in libya. the democratic countries have decided to help the libyans. they did the dawn odyssey. this operation was blessed by the un, the european union and it led to the twilight of gaddafi and his rule, but there is no dawn. libya is in the midst of a night of internal conflict. there was a plan to overthrow gaddafi, but what next? none of those who took part in the overthrow of gaddafi have the idea, or even the will, to do anything for libya. i wish you luck, commissioner, but i'm afraid we're looking at another failure. the moral of this is, we've seen it again, that easy military interventions that end in victory can lead to political defeat and defeat for those on whose behalf they intervene, and the irony is that none of the interveners benefit from it.
madam president, the dramatic situation in the mediterranean area raises many issues and questions which should be solved immediately, since the problem of illegal immigration is increasing. i believe that our priority is to regulate the problem of illegal immigrants, not by temporary actions but by common immigration law and organised programmes which will provide assistance in all cases. furthermore, it is also necessary to look at why the common european asylum system is not implemented in all eu member states. all these actions could open a legal and safe way to europe for illegal immigrants and effectively stop the smugglers. it is also crucial to activate the main tools, especially under the asylum, migration and integration fund. this would effectively manage immigration flows and enhance fair and effective strategies which would contribute to combating the irregular immigration process. commissioner, in your statement you mentioned the european programme for the resettlement of refugees and the fair distribution key between member states. in that context, solidarity and an integrated approach are vital, but it raises many questions and challenges. since each eu member state has a different population, gdp and, most importantly, market and absorption capacity, as well as a different human welfare position, how does the commission plan to regulate issues concerning the fair allocation mechanism for refugees within the eu? which particular distribution method of asylum seekers is foreseen among member states?
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statement on women on company boards (2015/2509 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i agree that there are not enough women on supervisory boards, but i do not think it is right for the european parliament to regulate this issue. let us leave that to the member states. but since we are talking about women in the european parliament today, i would like to speak about the situation of women in poland, the situation of women in silesia today. today, women in silesia are striking against the irresponsible actions of the government that will result in the elimination of thousands of jobs, and the situation in the labor market within the mines is tragic. you're thinking, what does this have to do with the european parliament? well, he does. what is happening in silesia is a consequence of the polish government's zealous implementation of the eu's climate policy. let's deal with the real women's issues! women who are unemployed, women who are homeless, women who are fighting for jobs, often going on hunger strikes, women who want to combine work and parenthood. let us deal with the real problems of ordinary women, millions of women in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in modern society, the pursuit of full gender equality in the public sector is something that is absolutely natural and necessary. but as far as the private sector is concerned, it is very important to take the specific measures necessary to achieve this noble objective, especially when it comes to doing business. it consists in undertakings acting in their own name, for their own benefit and at their own risk, on the basis of the principles of economy and mutual trust alone. the sacred right of property should be under special protection, the owners must have a decisive influence on the fate of their property and therefore on the way it is managed. i believe that states have the right to establish rules on governance, including the establishment of gender parities, but only in the case of public property. the desire to impose the same rules on the owners of private sector companies must be questionable. i therefore believe that the proposals we are discussing today should be re-evaluated.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the directive on gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies, which aims to increase the participation of women in decision-making positions, has been opposed by some countries. the official argument is that the principle of subsidiarity is not applicable and that the legitimate demands for equality between women and men should be implemented at the level of national law. this argument can only be accepted if countries actually have or are preparing their own national solutions and the participation of women in decision-making positions is adequate and proportionate to their qualifications. not all opponents of the directive meet this condition, which calls into question the intentions of the opponents. meanwhile, the waste of women's knowledge and talents is reducing the competitiveness of the european economy. women make up over 60% of master's degrees and 35% of employers, but only a few dozen of them participate in decision-making processes in governments and large companies, and their share of the labour market is much lower than that of men. removing barriers such as gender stereotypes and the shortage of child and dependent care facilities can increase employment rates and improve governance in politics and business, and above all, make full use of the skills and talents of citizens. given the shrinking labour market caused by ageing societies, gender balance is the most important challenge for the modern economy and the key to solving economic and social problems.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on european measures to combat organised crime and corruption (2015/2510 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we're kind of artificially conflating the discussion of corruption with the discussion of organized crime or crime in general. corruption is a separate phenomenon. corruption is a disease and a pathology of power, and we should treat it that way. if the state works properly, if the state institutions work properly, there are no conditions for corruption. there's a saying, "doctor, heal yourself". and when we in the european union talk about corruption, we should look at how our actions work, which take place in the member states, and unfortunately there is often a lack of transparency. transparency is one of the key anti-corruption mechanisms. i myself in poland have a problem with getting information about who used the money from the european union to fight the e. coli bacteria (there used to be such a problem and large compensation). it turns out that eu regulations don't allow that. it's not supposed to be like this! transparency is the most important tool against corruption.
in writing. the european union is increasingly engaged in the fight against corruption, including by implementing the first eu anti-corruption report of 3 february 2014. it would be appropriate to establish definitions of corruption at european and international level, as well as definitions and a system of protection for whistleblowers. these are people who expose to the public the illegal practices of governments, administrations, companies or private associations. we are talking about a passive and active instrument in the fight against corruption. given that reporting of breaches is hampered by a reluctance to report illegal activities within one's own organisation and by the fear of retaliation, i believe that a whistleblower protection scheme (e.g. on the model of the us sarbanes-oxley scheme of 2002) should be established in the eu with a requirement to apply it. an organization to protect these people should also be established. the need for an effective whistleblower protection system has been highlighted by transparency international for years. the european ombudsman also points to the need for a comprehensive and effective system of whistleblower protection in his 2014 publication 'good administration in practice'. this instrument would help to increase the security of potential whistleblowers, raise awareness, and build a culture of integrity in organisations. it would undoubtedly be useful in the fight against corruption in all eu member states.
in writing. the threat of organised crime and corruption are real threats to eu society and the economy. in addition to traditional types of crime, such as money laundering, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking, new challenges are emerging. the biggest of these are terrorism and the proliferation of cybercrime. the discussions traditionally focus on improvements in crime prevention and law enforcement. this is justified, as there are still considerable reservations in areas of cooperation between the authorities, such as the exchange of information and the transfer of detainees. however, two other areas should be considered. first, cooperation is necessary in the area of confiscation of criminal assets. the point is that criminals cannot profit from their nefarious activities anywhere in any european country. the second problem is to increase the role of europol. there is a debate in the eu about the need to create new institutions to fight organised crime. in my view, it would be simpler and more effective to provide europol with staff, operational and financial support rather than multiplying the number of entities.
mr president, prime minister, please! i would like to congratulate the latvian presidency. a competitive, digital, globally engaged europe these are the challenges that seem to be still relevant. we really need what has been stressed many times before: we want europe to have above all a sense of security and that citizens have jobs. the latvian presidency's priorities are marked by a focus on better lawmaking. this is also one of the european commission's priorities for 2015. i support this thesis, and we should keep talking about it, because the instability of the legislation is a bad sign for the legislator, and it is a bad sign for the successive presidencies. if we change these rules during the game - we have recently discussed among other things the reform of carbon dioxide emission allowances - it will also indicate that the recipients, and therefore also the industry and therefore the citizens, will not be happy about it. i also welcome the emphasis on the importance of implementing the objectives of the energy union. latvia does not need to be convinced of how important this is. the importance of pro-growth policies together with investment was also stressed. we also discussed this yesterday when we were discussing the conclusions of the european council in december. i am also convinced that everything that concerns the development of the common market is perhaps the least controversial. the single market is perhaps the least controversial because of the effects it has on all member states, including those that are sceptical of the european union. i would also like to emphasise the continuation of the presidency's efforts to strengthen the neighbourhood policy. we look forward to the eastern partnership summit in riga. it is also important that the presidency intends to make the ttip negotiation process - that is, the free trade and investment agreement with the united states - a more transparent process, a process in which citizens will also know what the effects will be.
mr president, the beginning of 2015 has brought dramatic events in france, and we are also seeing an upsurge in fighting in eastern ukraine. madam prime minister, europe will need to respond during your presidency to those and other challenges, offering our citizens more freedom through better security. the latvian presidency promises to be a challenging one, yet i am convinced it will be a fruitful time for the union. while listening to your programme, madam prime minister, i was happy to hear that your presidency will focus on better exploitation of existing mechanisms and procedures and ways of improving them. this approach should be praised and encouraged. i also see a chance that in the coming months we will witness more cooperation between european institutions, leading to a better functioning of the union. we look forward to a fruitful interinstitutional dialogue and joint action. i personally hope that you will manage to increase the appetite of the member states for serious steps forward on eurozone economic governance. i hope to have a constructive debate on closer coordination of economic policies in the emu in early 2015. i hope to see commitments to the streamlining of existing procedures within the european semester and increasing the involvement of national parliaments in the process. i hope to see the strengthening of national ownership of structural reforms. you promised to put the spotlight on labour market issues. we need more investment in the employability of female workers and young people, especially in the context of emerging technologies and new sectors where growth will take place. lastly, the first half of 2015 will also be also be a challenging one for the ttip. the commission has just released the results of its public consultation on isds with an overtly negative sentiment on its inclusion in the negotiated agreement. we will need to work together – all three institutions – to have an isds that will, at the end of the day, attract much-needed investment to europe. i know there are many challenges on your table. i wish you a fruitful presidency.
mr president, prime minister, please! the latvian presidency has important tasks ahead of it. the main objective is to achieve two main objectives. the first concerns the union's energy security, the second the provision of jobs and a decent standard of living for its citizens. what we're talking about here is, first and foremost, rebuilding an industry that provides jobs and a decent wage. the eu guidelines aimed at closing down workplaces should be unequivocally opposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not yet clear whether the commission will take any action to combat fraud. for the same reason, the government is now eliminating more jobs in the coal and heavy industry sectors. i therefore call on the commission and the council to take action to halt the deindustrialization process which is increasing unemployment and poverty. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. of course, i agree. our aim is to create the conditions for the european union to develop on an equal footing. i'm talking about sustainability here first and foremost. it cannot be that in some countries the law allows some kind of facilitation for industry, for job development, and in others it is treated as something unacceptable. this has to stop, once and for all.
prime minister! i also want to thank you very much and congratulate you on this sparing and solid performance. i am very pleased that a nation which was able to free itself from soviet representation can today lead the european union, and i am also pleased that you have supported europe's policy towards the east so clearly, frankly and courageously, that european security and european solidarity are threatened by russian imperialism. it is not, as one of my previous speakers said, a call for war, it is simply a real, solidarity-based response to the threat not only to eastern europe but to the entire old continent. thank you for saying that. that was a really solid and economical performance. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the passage which dealt with the sparing legislation, the clear, sparing legislation.
mr. chairman, please! prime minister! i am glad that the latvian presidency has included human rights and social inclusion in its priorities and that it plans to address the situation of people with disabilities. i believe that the presidency's actions will contribute to making significant progress towards the introduction of the european disability charter. the charter would enable disabled people to take full advantage of the facilities offered in each country when travelling, which would contribute to greater mobility and more full access to work and study abroad for this group of european citizens. i also hope that the draft charter will be on the agenda of the high level meeting on disability in may.
the union will try to return to growth in the next six months. the juncker plan is ambitious and the expectations for its implementation are high. the presidency has an important but difficult task to undertake in an efficient manner the work on the creation of the european fund for strategic investments. the commission is expected to present a legislative proposal on this subject in january. the second, equally important, issue is the security and political stability of our continent. our community will not be safe if there is still an armed conflict on the eastern border. that's why i agree with the prime minister that europe needs to be more involved internationally. the european neighbourhood policy needs to be strengthened and perhaps also re-formulated, and the eastern partnership summit planned for may will be key in this context. latvia has presented a sensible programme and has chosen good priorities. any action of the union must be carried out in cooperation between the commission, parliament and the council if it is to be effective.
in writing. the priorities of the latvian presidency are strategically oriented towards the most important areas for the development of the european union. focusing on ensuring the competitiveness of our economy and the stability of the internal market is definitely the right decision. the community's internal market is facing the greatest challenges in the face of the terrible turmoil caused by the russian embargo on agricultural products from the member states. i very much hope that the latvian presidency will give top priority to agricultural matters. the effective use of natural resources and simplification in the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy are also important issues to which latvia intends to devote a lot of attention at the meetings of the agriculture and fisheries council. the union's food and energy security is undoubtedly the basis for further action. it also welcomes the attention paid to the development of the neighbourhood policy and the strengthening of the eastern partnership, as well as the promise to reinstate the counter-terrorism directive on the agenda. the latvian presidency of the council of the eu is a rather special period, due to the change of the presidency of the european council, the new composition of the commission, and also due to current events in europe and its close neighbourhood. i hope that cooperation with the eu's key institutions will be effective and that latvia's priorities on key issues will guide the council's work in a way that will bring much good to europe and its people in the next six months.
in writing. i am pleased that the latvian presidency intends to strengthen the important role of education and training in promoting economic growth, investment and the well-being of citizens. these are very important declarations in the context of the review of the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of the juncker investment plan. the programme also includes a review of the implementation of the bologna process at the meeting of higher education ministers in yerevan. the presidency's commitment to the preparation of this meeting is crucial for the further development of the bologna process and the creation of a europe based on knowledge. it should be noted that although the changes that result from this process are mainly on the university level, the initiative is still largely political in nature. it is an attempt to develop a common response to the problems faced by most countries, including youth unemployment, insufficient adaptation of education systems to the labour market and barriers to mobility. among other things, the bologna process and the european higher education area have a key role to play in creating a knowledge-based and innovative economy in the union, stimulating investment, strengthening employment and building a european identity. there is an urgent need to continue and consolidate the bologna process, identify new challenges and directions of action, increase its funding, emphasise its social dimension and focus on preparing graduates for the labour market.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. indeed, the european union's nobel peace prize commits us to a sober assessment of the threats, to not feed our illusions and to confront those threats, and there are many of them along all our borders, and they have reached our territory. sergei lavrov, who is in paris, has called for a return to cooperation in the fight against terrorism. meanwhile, russia is waging an asymmetrical war against ukraine. according to multiple sources, he is also the cause and de facto perpetrator of the downing of flight mh17. he is also behind the recent events in ukraine, which have killed over 12 people. let's open up to transatlantic cooperation. let's not get involved with a partner whose intentions are unclear.
mr. chairman, please! the only meaning of our cooperation, the only meaning of the european union's action is to strengthen the independence of our countries, not the dream of a superpower. we need the solidarity that poland lacked in 1945, that hungary lacked in 1956 and that the czechs and slovaks lacked in 1968. because in central europe we are still feeling the effects of the post-war system. europe was not divided, the nations of central and eastern europe were separated from the free world, separated by soviet domination. on my way to the chamber for this sitting today, i thought i would hear a lot of words about this terrible crime that happened on our borders: the death of 12 people on a bus to donetsk. because we in central europe can always say: 'we are all passengers of the donetsk'. and we should all say it together.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i was very pleased to hear your presentation and the main subject of our debate, namely the basic aspects and the basic choices, was what you said in your speech. we have five years of experience in the foreign service. in your speech you highlighted what we also need in this room: a certain awareness of the role, the importance of the european union's role in this global world. we can argue about whether it's a superpower, but that's just semantics. but you've shown us the areas where we're important. secondly, i am very happy with what you have described as a broad definition of peace. what i would also like to point out, apart from your presentation, is that you represented and had in mind economic interests as well. the main objective is the competitiveness of the community economy. foreign trade is the instrument for this. a polite request that we also have this in the spectrum of these major principles and directions.
mr president, the honourable high commissioner! the aim of today's debate is first and foremost to express the views of meps on the implementation of the common foreign, security and defence policy. that is why i shall only touch on a few points. first of all, i don't share the view that there is a rivalry between civil rights, european security or economic issues. in my opinion, we have a value triangle where consistency and equality of meaning is the primary value. this is why i believe that we must have a uniform system of air passenger control throughout europe. let us remember that by extending the guarantees of citizens' security, we strengthen and realize their civil rights. secondly, my assessment of the nato summit in wales is ambivalent. on the one hand, it seemed that the preparations would end with poor results, on the other hand, as a result of the ukrainian crisis, there was a mobilization, and there was no doubt about the disaster. but today, the most important thing is to translate political decisions into military language and decisions. i have the impression that there is a lack of political will, determination and full agreement on this matter. i take it that the personal chairmanship of the high representative of the committee on defence is a good sign of these possible successes. thirdly, i am strongly opposed to the duplication of decision-making centres in security structures, the creation of new institutions, the building of alternative command centres or the resolution of redefined security problems by successive ad hoc agencies. the treaty of the union is sufficient to make use of it.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation in nigeria is becoming more dramatic. more than 2,000 people have been killed by boko haram in recent days, and the european union must respond as quickly as possible. this year, presidential and parliamentary elections will take place, further exposing the weakness of government institutions. the people of this country should be prepared for the intensification of boko haram's activities. boko haram attacks villages, small towns. the terrorists are killing everyone. this was the case in bago, which was attacked by islamists last week. the city is a wreck. today, we can speak of a civil war in nigeria. as one bago resident tweeted: "how can i feel safe when our authorities condemn the paris attack and do nothing, not even reporting the true death toll in my city. maybe my life means nothing to them. the european union must therefore respond decisively, because nigerians lack a strong government, medical care and a strong military and administrative structure to protect them from terrorists.
i thank president mogherini for mentioning christians in her speech on the tragedy in baga. i am particularly grateful that two days ago in this house its president, martin schulz, said that although he too felt sorry for the 2,000 victims of baga, when he enumerated the types of intolerance and ideologies of discrimination that threaten us today, he refrained from mentioning anti-christian hatred. but silence on anti-christian hatred is itself an act of anti-christian contempt, and that is why i appeal to the president: do not be silent! at least let the lady speak! you have to be brave.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, most of what we want to say is in our resolution, so i will not repeat that. i will just highlight some issues which are the most difficult, and i will speak about the part of the glass which is empty rather than the part which is full – which you described so eloquently. firstly, why are the european union and you, as vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, absent from the ukrainian talks? why is your chair empty? why do we not have the geneva rather than the normandy format? the latvian presidency is not a substitute. it should be you there, as our foreign minister. secondly, why is nothing being done with and for ukraine under the common security and defence policy (csdp)? we are doing for ukraine, with our csdp instruments, less than we are doing – with all due respect – for somalia, military training being an example. thirdly, why is there no major and visible eu-branded humanitarian aid to ukraine? the sum of eur 32 million is ridiculously small, and it is not ‘eu’ aid – it comes through intermediaries. fourthly, why is there no information campaign to counter the russian information war? to recall your words in the previous debate, we are not a superpower in relation to ukraine. we are a dwarf. we are a payer, not a player. we are punching below our weight, we are having less impact than we could, and your policy on that is too timid. the eu does a lot but not enough. often we do too little too late and in too shy a way. we are hiding behind the osce, un, red cross and some member states. we do not call things which happen by name. war is war, and terror is terror.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the european parliament has prepared a resolution on ukraine. it is a very good document. i can say i subscribe to every word there is in it. but let me make three general points. first, ukraine faces two major challenges: it has to reform itself, and it has to defend itself at the same time. it does not require a genius to know that it is extremely difficult, and without outside help it cannot succeed. second, russia’s behaviour is largely predictable. whatever the effect of sanctions and oil prices, it will be following the same course in the foreseeable future. history teaches us that change in russian politics has always resulted from the internal reshuffling of power. third, europe’s policy towards russia. the problem is that we simply do not know who is running the show. is it mrs merkel? is it you, ms mogherini? is it mr hollande, mr steinmeier, the prime minister of latvia? will the real negotiator stand up please? and the final point relating to the previous item on the agenda: i was shocked that you did not address the issue of the atrocities committed against christians in nigeria. i find it disgraceful that the eu is silent on this issue.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, did you notice that prime minister yatsenyuk is the head of a democratic government that received a mandate from its people because it won the elections? he has a clear democratic mandate, he is the head of a government that wants to work with us and is working with us, that has associated its state with us. should we not speak more respectfully of our friends and not equate them with the aggressor?
madam president, the situation is very complicated. i am afraid ms mogherini does not understand that the situations in donetsk and in lugansk are very different. the independence of ukraine is a keystone of polish politics. no responsible voice in poland would agree on the partitioning of ukraine – if there were such a plan – between poland, russia, romania, hungary and belarus, because one can love russia or hate it, but we like russia to be as far from polish borders as possible. still, if ukrainians hate russians, from the polish point of view that is a very good situation, because the typical stance of ukrainians is to hate poles, so if their sentiments are directed against russia, that is a better situation from our point of view. the only point that annoys us is the german-ukrainian sentiment. we do not like to be between a pro-german ukraine and a very strong germany. that is all.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. this is a very important resolution of the european parliament. it is the result of a compromise between all the political groups and is important, perhaps even historic, because it sets out very clearly the conditions that must be met in order to lift or even reduce sanctions against russia. and this, it seems, is the dream of some politicians in europe who are thinking about what to do to lift the sanctions against russia. let them think about our european interest, and it is in our european interest that ukraine should be more and more a country with which we have excellent relations, including economic relations. the resolution also discusses the economic situation in ukraine. we demand reforms there, but above all we emphasize, and this is very important, that we do not recognize the self-proclaimed elections in donetsk and lugansk, but also perhaps most importantly we directly encourage the member states of the european union to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! it is russia, a country that wants to subjugate its neighbors, said in 2008 in tbilisi the president of poland, lech kaczynski. less than two years later, he died in an unexplained way in the smolensk crash. the free world has become the order of the day both over the aggression in georgia and over the smolensk catastrophe, and in my opinion and in the opinion of many experts, the verdict has been passed on ukraine because russia does not retreat if it does not feel resistance, if it does not take appropriate action: not words, not resolutions, but decisions, real decisions. the sanctions were the right thing to do, but we need your action, your highness, your personal action. not the empty chair that mr saryusz-wolski was talking about, but your participation, your involvement and the involvement of the whole union.
madam president! when i listened to commissioner mogherini, i was hoping that we would hear at least one strong statement on crimea, because it is not enough to say that we do not recognize this annexation. i also do not expect you to present a plan here for how ukrainian sovereignty is to be restored in crimea, but that we will learn how to react to restore the balance that has been violently shaken in this region by the annexation of crimea. we know that there are already consequences, such as russia's increased military presence in abkhazia. and the second thing i wanted to ask you about on this occasion. what is the european commission's official attitude to the normandy format? because i have serious doubts that the best mandate to talk to russia is to do business with russia. i mean, things that are fairly recent, like the sale of submarines, the monopoly position on the use of the opal pipeline, which completely circumvents eu rules. so maybe we should think more about central europe, then we'll have a better title to speak about solidarity in europe.
madam president! it's hard not to relate to the words of my introduction, which were simply outrageous. it seems that what he said in his speech should be condemned most strongly. but if we look at the situation, it is easy to see that the crisis caused by russia will continue for so long that we need to think about how to increase solidarity among the member states. the best way out of this situation is to adopt or set clear goals that will keep us together. the russian side has had problems complying with the minsk agreements from the outset. a ceasefire, the unconditional withdrawal of russian troops from ukraine, the cessation of arming of armed groups or mercenaries, the exchange of all - i repeat all - prisoners and the restoration of ukrainian control over the entire country seem to be the obvious conditions here. it is important to emphasize the restoration of control over the entire country, because i have the impression that we are already forgetting about crimea, and that is where it all started. the deterioration of moscow's image, even if it is visible, is only illusory. the european union cannot relax its firm stance, but on the contrary, must be prepared for further restrictive measures that will stop russia's destabilization of ukraine. i believe in this success, but diplomatic channels must remain open.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we started this discussion with a conversation about the challenges that ukraine faces, the difficult reforms that are leading to the development of a democratic economy, but continuing this conversation, this debate, requires that we take the context of the situation very seriously. and the context is that there is a regular war in eastern ukraine, a war with tanks, with people being shot at every day, with soldiers and civilians being killed. and from the perspective of brussels or strasbourg, it seems that donetsk, lugansk is somewhere far away, but from the perspective of warsaw it is very close and it is no coincidence that today the polish delegation is very consistent both in assessing the situation and in proposing solutions. there is no doubt that solving the problem in the east, solving the problem in ukraine is a matter of the security of the european union, of the security of all of us, one of the most urgent, most important issues to be solved. and here russia's role is crucial, because it is the russian military that is supporting the separatists, the russian media is carrying out anti-european and anti-democratic propaganda on a huge scale. the european union cannot be divided or indecisive in the face of these events. we must be consistent and consistent in our opposition to the violation of the integrity of the borders established by international agreements. consistent in applying economic sanctions that are effective, in continuing and developing dialogue and cooperation with the eastern partnership countries and, finally, in providing assistance to ukraine, which is key to stabilising the situation in the east.
madam president! unfortunately, it is clear that the ceasefire agreement is still being violated. moscow must respect ukraine's independence and cease its destabilising activities in the eastern regions. i think it is extremely important that the european union should speak with one voice on this issue. we need a strong, united front to talk to russia, support the ukrainian government. at the same time, it is equally important that the internal political situation in kiev is stabilised. the ukrainian government must regain the ability to carry out the necessary reforms, which is why i am so pleased that the parliamentary elections were held. the choice made by ukrainian society is decidedly pro-european. studies show that ukrainians are willing to make changes and even short-term sacrifices if they are to bring long-term benefits. the new government faces many challenges. i hope that he will soon start implementing the changes that are so necessary and so expected.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i would like to underline some of the elements that were raised by some of you and try to answer a couple of questions. one is the fact that, yes, the european union is the first donor and this is not charity. this is an investment. it is an investment on the one hand in our own stability and security – and in our prosperity as well, because those of you who may have been in this room at the beginning of the session at 3 p.m. will have heard a long debate about the fact that there are no divisions, no limits and no borders between internal and external threats, and if we do not invest in reaching the objectives we have for development – for sustainable development – and for equality in the world, the threats to our security and also the limits to our economic development will just grow and grow. so this is an investment in our own future, not just in the future of the people in the rest of the world. and yes, it is one of the most effective tools for preventing conflicts and for foreign policy, and also for following up conflicts, not to mention what was said before regarding the effects this has on other elements of global challenges and policies, starting with migration and asylum-seeker flows. so i see no contradiction between improving the living conditions of european union citizens and improving the living conditions of other countries’ citizens. actually i see a certain complementarity in that. i think that making it possible to keep the european union as the foremost donor in the world is our common challenge and job. this requires a lot of work, not only on communication but also on explaining the fact that, no, this is not charity that we give when we can afford it, but rather it is a strategic investment in our own security and prosperity. secondly, someone said, and i agree with this, that it is not just a matter of help, and this is indeed so. it is a matter of policy coherence, and that goes for the challenges we have in front of us this year, when we know that we will be called again to be coherent in all our choices, be this in internal policies or external policies. that means that we need to work hand in hand with many other chapters. i would like to thank linda mcavan for reminding us of the role i am trying to play in coordinating the different commissioners and also the different councils – but in particular the different commissioners – because here we have first to make sure that what we do, for instance, on trade does not contradict what we do in development or that what we do on humanitarian issues goes hand in hand with what we do in development, and that we intervene with the right tool at the right moment and in the right place, and that what we do on certain policies does not influence in negative terms what we do with other instruments that we use. so the concrete effects of this coordination will probably take a little time to emerge, but i think that this is the key issue for post-2105 – the real policy coherence of our policies. i will try to answer two issues. one is about the commitment to the 0.7%. this was precisely one of the issues we discussed in the last meeting of the commissioners group. we will have a discussion about this, not only with the development ministers but also probably with the finance ministers and finally with the european council. obviously we will discuss that with the latvian presidency, but there is a need for member state ownership in this because it is not only a matter of spending money, but also of setting priorities politically. yes, we do believe that we should keep this target, but we need to develop a strategy to get there. the second point on which we will need very close coordination, not only within the commission but also with the council, is in managing the mix, the balance, between financing for sustainable development and financing for the climate. this year will be crucial in this regard, and we will need to play this carefully – first of all in the commission, but i think that we will need coordinated work on this. let me say a final word on expo, because i commented when you introduced the debate that this is the first time that i am not the one talking about expo because, when i started the presidency as a minister, that was one of my main issues. but some of your comments allow me to say that, yes, we will indeed be present, as the european union, at expo, and the reason for that is that, as was just mentioned, we need to put the content on our development policy, on feeding the planet, at the centre of the event. so count on the european union to be part of that effort, together with the un agencies based in rome, which i know are also going to be major players in focusing on the content of the development year, and to make sure that milan expo will also be a crucial event politically for the european year for development.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, this has been a really fruitful exchange of views, which i think shows once again our common strong engagement for the european year for development. i can assure you that the presidency will do its utmost to ensure the success of this important endeavour. the year 2015 will be a crucial year, with the financing for development conference in july in addis ababa and the un post-2015 summit in september in new york. i think the common event of this year will be cop 21 in paris in december. we have a unique opportunity to address the global challenges of poverty, education and sustainable development. we must agree on an ambitious and transformative package in september 2015. the latvian presidency will work towards reaching a common european position. we anticipate complex negotiations around means of implementation on how the post-2015 framework will be implemented and by whom. we need to ensure that everybody plays a part, based on shared responsibility, mutual accountability and respective capacities. we have to admit that awareness on, and civic participation in, development cooperation issues should be improved. the opening event of the european year for development in riga last week was a step towards achieving this goal. we hope that the impact of this latvian presidency initiative will be felt long after the end of our presidency. it is symbolic that at this time, a global alliance for the european year for development will be established that will bring together hundreds of european ngos. to conclude, i would like to note that successful development cooperation leaves a positive impact on the well-being of our partner countries. this in turn will unavoidably have a positive boomerang effect on the lives of europeans, most notably in terms of welfare, security and global position. so i really hope we will have a successful and fruitful european year for development.
in writing. 2015 is a special year for development policy. we are just past the deadline agreed 15 years ago for achieving the millennium development goals. we are also on the threshold of another roadmap, the new sustainable development goals. i therefore believe that the choice of 2015 as the european year for development is particularly appropriate. the european union, the world's largest donor, gives more than €50 billion in total development aid each year. it is therefore of the utmost importance that our citizens are aware of why such assistance is needed, who benefits from it and on what basis it is provided. i would also like this year to be a year to take a closer look at the effectiveness of the union's aid, to help better define the obstacles to poverty reduction and to help better identify the sources of poverty. i hope that in the coming year we will prove that for europe, the concern for human dignity, a peaceful future and human rights knows no bounds.
written. the european union plays a leading role in formulating and implementing the concept of policy coherence for development. it is important that union policy addresses the development needs of developing countries. in a rapidly changing world, it is essential to promote development cooperation on a continuous basis. some 1.3 billion people still live in extreme poverty and social development needs remain unmet. in most parts of the world, inequalities within countries are increasing. the environment is under increasing pressure, with developing countries particularly suffering from the effects of climate change. these challenges are common and interrelated and therefore require the cooperation of all countries to address them. it is necessary to inform how an outward-looking union can contribute to sustainability on a global scale. the european year for development should promote awareness raising. ending global poverty will help build a more stable, peaceful and just world, reflecting the interdependence of rich and poor countries.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to a particular issue, the situation of the copts, egyptian christians, who make up 10% of the population of egypt and are the largest christian minority in the middle east. in the last dozen months alone, many coptic churches, schools and homes have been attacked in cairo. religious discrimination continues to be manifested in the denial of access to high positions in the administration, the military, the blocking of the construction of churches, but also the marking of coptic shops with the black sign x to distinguish them from muslim shops. coptic clergy and activists appealed to the egyptian authorities for protection, but to no avail. in addition, in september 2013, it was the security forces that attacked jabal al-deir, looted it and killed its residents. i'm pointing out in this example that it wasn't the muslim brotherhood that was responsible for this attack, but state officials. this is no doubt the result of the islamization of the country under morsi, which even led to the constitutional change and the establishment of egypt as an islamic state. today, state officials, whose duty it is to protect all citizens, persecute them for their religious beliefs other than islam. it is time for the international community to stop turning a blind eye to the persecution of christians in europe and speak out loudly and forcefully for their rights. that is what i am appealing to commissioner mogherini.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. the wave of arbitrary arrests, and the horrific torture of former president morsi's supporters and other dissidents, are evidence of the deteriorating human rights situation in egypt. there are also widespread reports of disappearances of people detained by the police and military. egypt's judiciary has suffered a major setback over the past year with several politically motivated sentences. a series of mass death sentences after grossly unfair trials against detainees accused of violence reveals flaws in the justice system. in many cases, the accused were not present at the trials and lawyers were repeatedly prevented from presenting a defence and from hearing witnesses. the egyptian justice system has shown, with terrible consequences, that it is incapable of administering justice. despite repeated promises by the current and previous presidents to uphold the rule of law, horrific human rights violations have continued on an unimaginable scale over the past year. at the same time, the security services have been given permission to break these laws with impunity. on every level, egypt is showing a human rights failure. that is why the european union cannot agree to break them. the key is to act decisively and reverse this situation by launching an independent and impartial investigation into all reports of human rights violations and sending a strong message that violations of these rights will not be tolerated.
rapporteur. - mr president, first i would like to underline the fact that the year 2013 was a special one in relation to the post of european ombudsman. taking over from the long-standing and well-respected mr diamandouros was definitely a great challenge for ms o’reilly. thanks to her great experience as an irish ombudsman, the newly-elected european ombudsman started her work efficiently from the very beginning of her mandate. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable input during all stages of preparing this report: our cooperation was very fruitful and i tried to accommodate most of their ideas. i think we all share the view that the ombudsman has taken up her duties with admirable commitment and has managed to accomplish a lot, considering her short time in office in 2013. i would like once again to congratulate the european ombudsman on her efforts to make the institution accessible and user-friendly. an example of this was demonstrated in the preparation of the annual report. it is divided into two parts: the first includes the most important statistics and the second a more detailed examination of cases of 2013. topics at the top of the list of the ombudsman’s inquiries in 2013 included transparency-related issues and other key topics such as ethical issues, citizens’ participation in eu decision-making and fundamental rights. in my opinion, it is crucial for the work of the ombudsman, and the european institutions as well, to observe the tendencies regarding the complaints. i appreciate the fact that the number of complaints about the european personnel selection office (epso) more than halved in 2013, and the volume of complaints against parliament also significantly declined. on the other hand, it is important for the ombudsman to examine the significant rise in inquiries based on complaints against the commission – and the same applies to complaints against eu agencies – and especially to monitor developments and indicate the reasons why complaints were lodged. i would like to stress that the european ombudsman took a very proactive attitude during the preparation of this report. her report mentioned the statistics on incoming complaints and, on the basis of 100 exemplary ones, indicated the next steps. this is an interesting way to explain the process but, in my view, including raw data is also crucial so that it is easier to spot the tendencies over the years. this recommendation was taken into consideration and full data will be incorporated in 2014. moreover, i think it is important for the european ombudsman to strike a balance between the traditional and digital communication channels. it is still possible to address a letter just with the title ‘the european ombudsman’ and it will reach her office. at the same time it is crucial to further develop social media strategy. from what i recall, the official twitter account has tripled and now has over 9 000 followers. also worth mentioning is the fact that the services of the ombudsman are available in 24 official languages, which is quite impressive considering that her office consists of 67 posts. last, but not least, as a ppe group coordinator on the committee on petitions, i have a special interest in improving the timeframe for processing complaints. therefore i am fond of a mechanism that is used by the european ombudsman., namely the interactive guide, which enables her to answer requests successfully. i hope we will achieve similar goals in our committee. to sum up, i am very content with the propositions of madam ombudsman and i wish her all the best in her future work.
mr. chairman, please! congratulations to the speaker, too! the commission's report shows that the union suffers from a lack of transparency and that it is very often the national institutions that are more transparent than the eu institutions. this is a matter of words and consistent action. i propose that the ombudsman, without waiting for the european commission, develop a transparency code a set of rules that will make the eu institutions more transparent. and finally, the second point: we have a new civil law, a civil legislative initiative. the ombudsman has taken care of that, but it's not just about interest, it's about standing up for those who are exercising that right. on the side of the biggest initiative that was "one of us". unfortunately, the barroso commission rejected this initiative, which was supported by nearly 2 million citizens. i expect the ombudsman to be clear, unequivocal in such cases/cases on the side of the rights of citizens, of the inhabitants of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate mrs emily o'reilly warmly on the first report of the european ombudsman. the report covers the year 2013, when the office was still held by the previous ombudsman, professor nikiforos diamandouros, who has been very positively assessed by us every year. i am glad that his method of working with parliament, and in particular with the committee on petitions, is also being continued today. in 2013, more than 23 000 citizens sought the ombudsman's assistance. of these, nearly 20,000 received online counselling. 2420 complaints were registered, a drop of exactly 22 compared to the previous year. 350 new investigations were opened, 461 investigations already opened were closed, 77% concerned complaints lodged by individual citizens. the most frequent were those concerning transparency in the eu institutions and citizens' participation in the eu decision-making process. making the institution of the ombudsman as citizen-friendly as possible should be the guiding principle of the current term of office. and you, as the first woman in this position, i wish you all the best. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr wałęsa, on his thorough report.
madam president, madam speaker, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, the picture we have of your report is a positive one, and that was a good reason, because mr wałęsa also prepared a very decent report. so, if i may, in the course of discussion, two moments that have fallen here. wait a minute, first question, the attorney general is doing well, even though she's not a lawyer. and let's add that the symbol of law is themis. themis has her eyes covered. you're supposed to keep your eyes open because you represent the interests of the people! and it's a good thing you're not a lawyer. the second complaint was that there are tens of thousands of cases in france. you only reported a few hundred cases. first of all, you can't order thousands to influence and justify your existence. moreover, if no case had been brought, the ombudsman's role would be justified in every way, since you are supposed to be a representative of the citizens, but also a kind of guardian of the european commission's compliance with standards.
rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank everyone for joining today’s discussion. i think it is safe to say that we have the right person in the right place, and i am very grateful for that – and i am very grateful to you, ms o’reilly, for all your work. you are doing a splendid job and i wish you all the best in the future months. i would like to say one thing, because there were a few voices of discontent, but most of them, i think, misunderstood a very crucial point. this annual report refers to the year 2013; there are lot of issues that came up last year which are going to be addressed in future annual reports, so maybe the debate on this report is not the place to address these. once again i would like to thank everyone for joining in the discussion, and all the best to ms o’reilly.
in writing. in the last year alone, the ombudsman took action in 2 354 cases and as many as 19 418 people received advice through the interactive guide on the website, demonstrating the effectiveness of the system for responding quickly to citizens' complaints. however, the report shows that access to documents of the eu institutions and the transparency of certain procedures are still insufficient, given that as many as 25,6% of closed investigations were related to this. the publication of the new edition of the european code of good administrative behaviour deserves special attention and praise. all eu institutions should implement and fully respect the principles of the code, and the newly established commission should adopt common binding rules of administrative procedure for eu administrative structures and present a draft regulation on this matter. several important inquiries opened by the ombudsman are particularly noteworthy: firstly, the case concerning the refusal of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) to implement a complaints mechanism, which resulted in the special report of the ombudsman, the transparency in transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) investigation and the disclosure of irregularities in the eu institutions. i would like to congratulate ms o'reilly on her successful mission to increase transparency in the institutions and to deepen the dialogue with citizens and to effectively inform them about the full exercise of their rights.
madam president! human and civil rights and the rule of law in russia are constantly being curtailed and violated. the right to freedom of speech, freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of association is being violated. anyone who is inconvenient to the authorities can be unlawfully charged, arrested and convicted in a show trial under any pretext in russia today. one of the victims of this policy is russian opposition figure alexei navalny, who has openly opposed russia's corruption by publicizing numerous embezzlements and abuses by russian authorities. navalny was forever blacklisted by putin, persecuted and illegally arrested, and in july 2013 was sentenced to 5 years in prison. however, he did not give in to the pressure and force of the russian regime and still has the courage to publicly criticize the president of russia. alexei navalny and i have a lot in common. it's hard to agree with his position on crimea or georgia. but i hope that regardless, whenever human rights and the rule of law are violated in russia, we will loudly and decisively protest and defend the victims of this regime. let's not be afraid to demand that the russian president respect the people and the law. let us not be naive, let us not be blind and fearful. russia is not a democratic country.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to express once again my sincere condolences to the families of the victims, especially since this act of brutality has affected innocent and defenseless people, namely children. therefore, i want to strongly condemn the perpetrators of this heinous act and express my concern about the escalation of aggression in pakistan. the perpetrators of terrorist attacks on children deserve no justification and should be punished with the full force of international law. in today's world, everyday activities, such as going to school, are a matter of courage and involve great risk. i therefore call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to put pressure on the pakistani authorities to step up efforts to ensure the safety of ordinary citizens, including children, in that country.
in writing. – mr president, i must say, the tragedy in peshawar had left me utterly devastated, and i would like to express my deepest condolences to the survivors, the families of the victims and the whole pakistani community. free, compulsory and good quality education must be regarded as a fundamental human right and a crucial means of realising other human rights, as it plays a key role in lifting people out of poverty, enabling them to obtain the means to participate fully in their society. i acknowledge the recent positive change in pakistan’s constitution establishing the right for children to access free, compulsory education. in my opinion, ensuring this right even in emergencies, such as during a conflict, should be done not only within the individual state’s responsibilities, but should also be addressed within the framework of our international cooperation. i encourage pakistan’s development of protective measures against terrorism and religious extremism. nevertheless, it is extremely important for this widespread learning crisis in pakistan to be resolved by abiding by the minimum conditions of the international standards of the rule of law and human rights. especially, methods which disregard the right to a fair trial cannot be accepted.
in writing. ten years after the tragic terrorist attack on a school in bieslan, which killed 334 people, mostly children, the taliban carried out a similarly bloody attack on a school in peshawar, pakistan. it is hard to ignore the tragedy that took the lives of 132 children. there has never been, and there never will be, a european union state that will agree to such an attack. children in particular should be cared for and looked after by adults, not killed en masse and used as hostages in civil wars, inter-state conflicts or religious clashes. no ideology or religion justifies the premeditated killing of children. i am strongly opposed to this kind of terrorism, where the lives of defenseless and innocent children are measured by the categories of revenge, settling accounts or achieving one's own goals, and i regard this with deep disapproval. i would like to make a strong appeal to all heads of state and those in power to do everything possible to prevent and eliminate the possibility of mass slaughter of children. the events in peshawar are a warning to the world, but above all a tragedy for the pakistani people, who have once again seen what the taliban are capable of - in the name of religious extremism - for whom even the lives of children are of no value.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the resolution we are about to vote on calls on the kyrgyz parliament to withdraw the bill banning the so-called promotion of homosexuality. the law is modeled on the russian law of 2013 and is contrary to international human rights standards, violates civil liberties and human dignity. such legislation has been repeatedly condemned by leaders of the un, the european union and human rights organisations. the very drafting of this law in kyrgyzstan has intensified acts of intolerance, aggression and violence against non-heterosexual people, as this work in parliament is interpreted as condoning or even encouraging the worst treatment of lgbt people by the highest state authorities. kyrgyzstan decriminalized homosexuality in 1998, and the passage of this law would undo the progress made and increase the contempt and hatred towards sexual minorities that are alien to democratic states of law.
in writing. the european ombudsman's 2013 activity report makes the european union's main problem, namely its distance from its citizens, very clear. a significant number of complaints during this period concerned the refusal of access to documents and information and the lack of transparency in the functioning of the eu institutions and agencies. it's a very important problem that has been unresolved for years. it is important to realise that trust in the union cannot be built without increasing its openness and transparency. the decline in support for integration projects is partly due to the fact that citizens do not know on what basis decisions are taken that directly affect them. and the lack of transparency increases support for anti-eu movements and parties. that is why i also supported the report, which not only included elements on mechanisms to improve the way citizens' questions are answered, but also new ideas for further improvements. i congratulate the rapporteur, the european ombudsman, and look forward with optimism to further and more positive reports.
in writing. the european ombudsman, who has been emily oreilly since 2013, is responsible for addressing the concerns of citizens and businesses who have experienced maladministration by eu institutions, offices and agencies. in response to complaints of breach of law, failure to respect the principles of good administration or human rights violations by these authorities, the ombudsman closed 441 investigations and opened 341 new ones in 2013. from poland alone, the ombudsman received 248 complaints in the same year, which confirms the need to continue to bridge the gap between citizens and the eu institutions. as the rapporteur stressed, in order to achieve this, the ombudsman must not only deal with complaints but also ensure the transparency of the eu institutions. indeed, facilitating the processes of monitoring and evaluating the actions of public authorities by citizens is crucial to enhancing their trust, which is essential for the proper functioning of a united europe. in addition, in order to increase its importance and influence, it should become more involved in matters of public interest, such as the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013. as a rapporteur on this dossier, i would like to underline the fact that the year 2013 was a special one regarding the post of the european ombudsman. taking over office from a long-standing and well-respected mr nikifiros diamandouros was definitely a great challenge for ms emily o’reilly. thanks to her experience as an irish ombudsman, the newly elected european ombudsman started her work very efficiently from the very beginning of her mandate. within just a few months, she was able to turn this institution into a more accessible and user-friendly one. i would like to welcome the ombudsman’s important investigations, e.g. into the transparency of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) talks, whistleblowing in the eu institutions and ‘revolving door’ cases, which raise concerns that senior eu officials taking private sector jobs in their fields of expertise may be subject to conflicts of interest. it is also important to stress that the whole european parliament demonstrated support for ms o'reilly when electing her for a new term in december 2014.
in writing. i support the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013. this is a solid document, showing that 23 245 citizens turned to the ombudsman for help in 2013, including 19 418 who received advice through the interactive guide and 1 407 requests for information. the ombudsman treated complaints as complaints and considered 2 420 requests. it is worth noting that of these 2 420 complaints, the largest number came from spain (416), germany (269) and poland (248). the main issues raised in the complaints concerned the lack of access to eu documents, objections to the procedure for recruiting eu officials and the lack of citizen participation in the eu decision-making process. the european ombudsman has undertaken a number of interventions in the eu institutions, in particular in the european commission. i believe that the ombudsman should strengthen his role by taking an active part in key eu debates and by drawing the attention of the european public to important issues. the ombudsman's position will increasingly be based on his activity in the european forum and not just on dealing with cases addressed to him.
in writing. i voted against the resolutions on the situation in ukraine because they lack some very important points. firstly, they do not take into account the current historical policy of the ukrainian state and ukrainian volunteer forces. the volyn genocide and the criminal organisations responsible for it cannot be the basis of ukrainian identity, and are portrayed as such. secondly, the resolutions did not take into account in the slightest the free will of the people of crimea, donetsk and lugansk, expressed in referendums, to be autonomous from the government in kiev or even to return to their historical statehood. thirdly and finally, the resolutions did not in any way refer to the socio-political and economic situation of the ukrainian state which led to the current state of affairs. a country that was being fed by economic crises, corruption, the pathology of oligarchic rule, with a weak state apparatus, an unenforceable justice system, became the first-rate arena of internal struggles that eventually turned into demands for autonomy backed by the common will.
in writing. ukraine is currently facing a number of challenges that can be summarised as two main challenges: domestic reforms and an end to the armed conflict in the east of the country. the current government has been able to achieve some successes; however, the situation is difficult and the integrity and lasting sovereignty of the state are still not sufficiently guaranteed. the changes in the country should primarily concern constitutional reform and decentralisation, judicial reform, changes to the electoral law and improving and making more transparent the business climate. ukraine seeks and receives eu support, both financial, humanitarian and political. however, the country's needs are far greater than the assistance it receives, as ukraine is weakened not only by the current conflict but also by the actions of the russian federation before the current escalation. any change of regime is further complicated by the high level of corruption and the fact that the country is engaged in war. diplomatic solutions are needed to limit the situation leading to many adverse economic effects. the growing economic weakness of ukraine further complicates the implementation of reforms and reduces the country's ability to provide its citizens with protection, medical and other benefits, prospects for young people, etc.
mr. chairman, please! we all heard in this room the day before yesterday prime minister renzi's speech when he was finishing the italian presidency and when he praised president sisi's speech at cairo university. a speech by the egyptian president condemning the violence committed in the name of islam. egypt has been in a civil war for decades, and the government has had to fight violence. violence against muslims, whom extremists want to re-educate, and violence against christians, who are denied the right to live in peace, and often the right to live at all. the best way the western world can help christians in countries where they are persecuted is by cooperating with governments that christians respect. that's why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. in recent years, there has been a real revolution in egypt. thanks to the intervention of the military, the islamic revolution, which was being prepared by the muslim brotherhood, was stopped. the new government quickly set about modernising the country, making it easier for businesses to operate and attracting new foreign investors. the country's security has improved, and this, along with favorable business conditions, has led to economic growth. government forces have been actively cracking down on islamic radicals, arresting over 167 of them, regardless of their party affiliation. fighting continues against the muslim brotherhood splinter groups that have moved into the sinai peninsula and are seeking to establish an islamic state. despite their fears, military governments have been very open about their treatment of christians in egypt. the copts can finally breathe a sigh of relief. churches and masses are guarded by troops. a wide-ranging dialogue between the authorities and christians was also initiated. that's a big plus for you. unfortunately, the resolution that was voted on says very little about that. it does not express even part of those postulates. the text shows that once again the european parliament is not up to commenting on foreign affairs. he never had a mandate to do so, and once again, he's vindicating the rightness of the people's decision on this issue.
in writing. unfortunately, the european parliament's political groups have not been able to reach an agreement on the european commission's work programme for 2015, despite its projects such as the investment plan, the european energy union and the digital single market. achieving the objectives of eu growth and fighting unemployment will require financial resources. for example, new measures to combat tax fraud in the union need to be introduced rapidly in order to achieve this. i am pleased that the plans for this year include a review of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, including actions proposed jointly by the commission and the council to improve the efficiency of the legislative process. the plan also includes a fairer division of responsibilities in the fight against illegal migration, which is being pursued by the eu's border countries, especially greece and italy. i hope that the commission will succeed in creating the basis for sustainable economic growth and thereby reduce unemployment, especially among young people. in addition, we as a parliament look forward to working closely together on the ttip negotiations so that our social, consumer and environmental standards are included in the new agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of resolutions which aim to reduce eu bureaucracy, replace eu acts with member states' laws, fight corruption and waste of funds, and have a responsible and decisive migration policy. i am in favour of rethinking the current european climate and energy policy and of condemning any eu legislation that imposes administrative burdens and introduces additional bureaucratic obstacles for smes, the main source of jobs and growth. i am deeply convinced that the policy of all the eu institutions, with the european commission at the forefront, must be redefined from building a bureaucratic empire of economic weakness to building a strong europe of nation states with strong economies.
in writing. one of the striking features of the commission's 10-point priority list is, in my view, that it does not contain a single reference to agriculture and the cap, which is surprising given the importance of this policy in political and budgetary terms. even though the basic legislative pillars of the new cap are in place, much remains to be done in terms of implementation at both eu and national level, and the success or failure of the reform will depend to a large extent on its implementation. another aspect that cannot be stressed enough is the risk of the agricultural sector being exposed to crises for eu farmers. the damage suffered by the main eu agricultural segments as a result of the russian embargo is now being demonstrated, and this could be followed in the next few months by a serious crisis in the dairy sector following the expiry of the quota system. another key issue that will require full attention in the coming months is the agricultural component of the ttip trade negotiations with the us and the protection of the european agricultural model and the eu's interest in agriculture in these negotiations. i would therefore encourage the commission to take these issues seriously when preparing the commission's work programme for 2015 and to present initiatives and proposals that are relevant to the challenges facing our sector.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on freedom of expression in turkey, concerning recent arrests of journalists and media executives and systematic pressure against the media. oppression against journalists practicing critical journalism in turkey is a disturbing sign of a practical withholding of the constitutional guarantees of freedom of the media and of a major threat to freedom of expression. these imprisonments and trials can only be viewed as violations of basic human rights and fundamental values, which are recognised as pillars of our european community. i firmly believe that such actions cannot be overlooked and should be condemned. the turkish government’s commitment to silencing the public debate over major internal problems or politically sensitive issues is a clear sign of the crisis in turkey’s democracy and growing radical tendencies. even though turkish integration with european union is at risk now, more than ever before, the european union cannot remain indifferent and must call for application of the rule of law and fundamental rights.
the explanation of vote on kyrgyzstan is recorded.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. according to the jamestown foundation (an american think tank), most of the counter-terrorism operations in europe since the attacks in paris in early january have been aimed at chechens. according to the bbc, russian citizens of chechen origin have been arrested in france with explosives. in germany, one of those arrested, according to deutsche welle, is a turkish national suspected of leading what it described as an "islamic extremist organisation from turkey and russian chechnya and dagestan", while in belgium, two terrorists were killed and a third chechen was captured after a police raid. does the police profiling of chechen emigrants from russia indicate that the authorities of the member states are taking into account the eastern inspirations of the current wave of terrorism? so how can moscow gain from the rise of far-right, anti-immigration and anti-european parties in order to destabilize and weaken the unity of the european union?
mr president, europe needs security which means it needs stronger counterterrorism actions and the new policy. it is important to avoid losing time at the political stage so the idea of a pact on counterterrorism among key political groups in parliament is very much expected. i want to emphasise some points. one: we should start common work with the commission on the renewal of the european internal security strategy. we need clear pillars for this strategy, a holistic approach and a fast track. two: it is important that work starts again on pnr as a common framework for 28 member states, taking fully into account personal data protection, responding to the problem of retention indicated by the court, based on real evidence of how this solution could be effective and ensure that those data which are really needed are processed. three: we need fast work on the nis directive. it is important for strengthening cooperation among member states. the key point is to have useful cooperation among all the institutions which can contribute in the area of anti-terrorism actions (also responsible for the security of our external borders). four: we need proper legislation, adjusted to the terrorism challenges but which on the other hand protects differentiation in cultural, ethnic and religious views. also with respect to privacy and encryptions by default in devices. this is the key goal – to finalise work on the whole privacy package. five: the last point, we need a good balance between freedom and security. freedom and security are the two sides of the same face of the european citizen.
mr. chairman, please! in the face of a phenomenon like terrorism, we need to act consistently and quickly. mrs. hohlmeier called for unity, but i have the impression that the unity was broken very quickly. if we take seriously the voices of the left, the greens, who have said very clearly, 'we do not want new instruments to fight terrorism', and more intelligently and softly say it socialists, mr verhofstadt also went in the same direction. but what worries me even more is the turtle pace of commissioner avramopoulos announcing that we will have a counter-terrorism program in may, that the program agenda will be definitively formed then, it is an extremely slow pace. nor can we keep repeating the formula: we want an effective fight and we want respect for fundamental rights. we must show concrete instruments and i hope that in his final words the commissioner will, firstly, speed up the timetable and, secondly, speak about this in a much more concrete way than at the beginning.
in writing. the tragic events of three weeks ago in paris and the attempted attacks in belgium show that eu citizens cannot feel safe in their own countries. that's why we need to take action now to ensure that we fight terrorism effectively. at present, there is no legislation at eu level that allows the use of passenger data. such a directive can help in the fight against terrorist organisations, provided that it ensures the highest standards of protection of personal data. eu citizens have the right to know who is storing their data, for what purpose and for how long. of course, finding the right balance between the safety of our citizens and the freedom of the individual will not be easy, but i am convinced that it is possible. i am very pleased that this report has reached my colleague from the group of european conservatives and reformists, mr kirkhope. i think that together, we can restore a sense of security to our citizens.
in writing. – mr president, it must be noted that we cannot address anti-terrorism measures without a broader european strategy for the security and stability of the region. in order to achieve our long-term goals, the instruments adopted must provide for both preventive measures and fast-reaction procedures. in particular, areas such as the monitoring of national counter-terrorism policies, the sharing of best practices among member states and the reinforcement of our information exchange and of cooperation on criminal justice should be improved. we should also address the threat at its roots by preventing social exclusion and the growth of extremism, and by fighting relevant types of crime: corruption, drug, human and weapons trafficking and cybercrime. high-security issues such as terrorism transcend the distinction between internal and external security. realising that means we must also improve the stability of our geopolitical surroundings through collaboration with a variety of state and non-state actors. especially, we need to reinforce our cooperation with third-party states that might be incubators or logistics and transit bases for violent extremists. moreover, our conflict-prevention tools must not neglect the promotion of human rights and democracy, external assistance in relation to governance, the rule of law, policing and law enforcement, and well-tailored aid.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) will be the main channel for mobilising at least eur 315 billion. i am very pleased to see the agreement of all the institutions on the readiness to implement this plan for actively stimulating economic growth in the eu, which is necessary in the current situation of protracted crisis. the fund will support investments in the various forms of innovation and new technology deployment in our economy. the ambitious plan proposed by european commission president jean-claude juncker has every chance of becoming a catalyst for the eu economy, while strengthening our internal market. however, it is important to ensure that the projects financed are transparent and that the rules for granting grants are clear. the european parliament must be actively involved in this process. the european fund for strategic investments can be a key factor in tackling the current very high unemployment, especially among young europeans. i hope it will also provide a stimulus for the community's economy to continue to develop in a sustainable way. in the current political turmoil, with a growing lack of confidence in the eu's added value, citizens expect the quickest, most effective action to improve their quality of life. we don't have time to waste.
in writing. the creation of the european fund for strategic investments is a valuable initiative and i thank the commission for bringing forward the legislative proposal in such a short time. this gives us the chance to finish the work as planned by mid-year and to start the investment on time. i hope that the projects selected will be truly strategic and have a high added value in terms of creating new, sustainable jobs. in particular, i hope that the €75 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises will make a real contribution to improving their innovation and competitiveness. some doubts were raised as to whether the new fund would be introduced at the expense of the structural and investment funds. i am pleased that we have received assurances from commissioner crețu that the fund and cohesion policy will be complementary and that the funds allocated to improve cohesion are safe. and if we implement these funds well, it means that we actually have a chance to see a jump in investment in the next few years.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the last few days have seen the implementation of a plan to counterbalance the current austerity policy. one of its pillars is president juncker's investment package, the most important part of which is the european fund for strategic investments. the second is the recent decision by the eib to buy up the bonds of the euro area countries, which is a de facto injection of huge amounts of money into the eu economy. given the current economic situation in europe, the current action seems not only necessary but even necessary. therefore, despite the many doubts particularly regarding the feasibility of raising €315 billion , the creation of the fund should be supported. this may be the last moment to streamline existing policies and take action to stimulate the eu economy. for my part, i would like to thank the commission for its attempt in its legislative proposal to create mechanisms to ensure that projects financed by the fund are rational. the structure of the investment committee gives reason to hope that the initiatives selected will actually benefit the european economy and not be the result of lobbying by individual governments. however, it is crucial that the experts on the panel are well selected so that they can take a long-term view of the problems and needs of the eu economy, while remaining independent and resistant to political pressure. however, i am concerned that the european commission is planning to finance the eu contribution to the fund from the money allocated to horizon 2020.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr posler, you call our climate policy ambitious, but do you realise that it is the poorer countries of the european union, those countries with the least money to develop new technologies, that are paying for this ambition? the decarbonization program is a program to actually eliminate a major industry in our homeland. maybe it's time we actually thought about how to shift these costs to other countries, but also think about our own countries.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question for ms van brempt also in the context of our earlier discussion on the strategic investment plan. we are talking about reducing emissions at the moment, we are talking about the fact that we want, as the european union, to encourage the rest of the world to do the same. the problem is that our plan that we want to implement, which is to reduce emissions by 40%, is a plan that is basically not accepted by the rest of the world - let's call it what it is - which will make the european economy much less competitive in this perspective. is it not better to allocate the money from the juncker plan to investments in energy, in improving energy efficiency, today?
mr. chairman, please! if the major emitters of the world do not accept what the european union is proposing in paris, which is to reduce emissions, then i think we should revise our climate policy. what good is it to limit our freedom? they will not bring any significant reduction in emissions in the global context, because by 2030 we will be responsible for 4% of global emissions. moreover, they can cause enormous economic and social damage. on the one hand, this will weaken our competitiveness, especially in energy-intensive sectors, and on the other hand, it will damage our energy security, which is particularly dangerous for poland and other new member states in the face of russia's aggression against ukraine. the union imposes restrictions on itself which already discourage many sectors of the economy from investing in europe. this is particularly damaging to weaker countries, such as my home country of poland, which is becoming less and less competitive in the face of global competition due to intra-eu constraints.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we are dealing with an ideological issue, not a practical one, which exists only in the minds of politicians and lobbyists. it must be said clearly for poland, a 40% reduction in co2 emissions is an absurd, unrealistic and deadly condition. over the next few years, the price of energy in poland will increase by at least 30%. we're going to have to shut down most of the brown coal and hard coal plants. we'll be forced to buy green energy from germany, nuclear from france or gas from russia. this is what polish energy security will look like in practice. so who's going to pay for the cost of polish unemployment, the cost of co2 emissions, the cost of more expensive energy? who will pay for the losses in polish transport, agriculture, construction...? i mean, polish taxpayer, who else? and all because there are a few lunatics who insist that climate change is man-made and a few smart guys who have decided to profit from this superstition. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. ambassador, it is obvious, as has been said here before, that 2014 is the warmest year on record. i don't know what the basis of this story is, because the name greenland comes from the fact that it was green, it was cultivated, and not like the ice it is now. it's not a human issue, one eruption of vesuvius can introduce a lot more greenhouse gases.
mr. chairman, please! my words are an appeal to the president of the european council. mr tusk, please! the ultimate elimination of polish mining is in the interest of big world capital, because it ensures the energy independence of our country and cheap competitive energy. the polish government should understand this and finally decide on the future of polish energy. it must not succumb to pressure from the various european and global climate and energy lobby groups, including financial and gas lobby groups. we need to convince europe of the need for a true, united and fair energy union, which would be a renaissance of coal, the need for real energy efficiency and the need to negotiate gas prices together, demonstrating the complete nonsense of the so-called "carbon-free" economy.
mr. chairman, please! on 19 january, the french ministry of agriculture announced the conclusion of a bilateral agreement with russia on the resumption of exports of pigs and pork products. this is a clear breach of eu rules, and the european commission was informed of the ongoing negotiations, but did not take any action to curb this practice. the european union's relations with russia are a matter of paramount political importance, and the russian federation has repeatedly tried to destabilise our single market by diverting member states. in the face of such a crisis situation, both because of the embargo on agricultural products and because of the armed conflict in ukraine (no one is under the illusion that these are two different things), divisions within the community will weaken our markets, not to mention our political credibility on the international scene. i call on the member states to show full solidarity and on the european commission to fulfil its responsibilities faithfully.
mr. chairman, please! on monday, at a meeting of the eu's agriculture ministers, the european commission said it had not agreed to the conclusion of bilateral agreements between the eu and russia on the easing of the pork embargo. i think that the european parliament should also be the one to oppose this even potential situation. russia has consistently tried to create divisions in the european union, which is why we cannot tolerate any discriminatory practices against any member state. in the context of contacts and negotiations with russia, but also in crisis situations and especially in the face of the tense situation in ukraine, we must be coherent, united and solidarity.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at this time, exactly 70 years have passed since the yalta conference, which determined the fate of europe for half a century. for half of the countries of europe that had retained their freedom, it created a permanent military threat. our homeland and many other countries in central europe have been deprived of their freedom. it has stripped the baltic states of their statehood and prepared the way for their partitioning with regard to germany. we are convinced that the importance of this event merits that the european parliament, out of respect for european history, should celebrate this event with a serious debate on the lessons of the yalta tragedy for the present and that we should conclude this debate by adopting a resolution to that effect.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has often dealt with historical events. we've devoted a lot of attention to the anniversary of the outbreak of world war i. anyone who respects european solidarity and respects the truth cannot be indifferent to yalta, which has drastically divided europe and pushed european unity back 50 years. this is a fact of great importance not only for romanians, bulgarians, latvians, lithuanians, estonians, poles, czechs, slovaks, croats, but for all people who respect european solidarity. i therefore appeal to my colleagues from all political groups - the christian democrats, the socialists, the greens and all other political groups - not to be indifferent to one of the most important events in european history.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this question seems to be a question of no consequence, but in reality we expect here in the european parliament, but also in many other circles, the broad reform of intellectual property rights announced by the european commission hence every action taken by the commission is closely monitored also in the european parliament. the establishment of the group of experts is neither new nor new. our question was addressed to the commission for the sole purpose of not only checking whether the work of the observatory (ohim) in alicante and that group of experts overlap, but also to ascertain whether there is no unnecessary duplication of the same activities. we go one step further and ask not only whether there is duplication but also to what extent these institutions, both working for the same european union, will cooperate with each other. the question is justified by the fact that some of the experts appointed by the european commission to this group of experts are also the same experts who work for the office for harmonisation in the internal market (ohim). it seems absolutely essential that everyone should be able to share information and experience, both the observatory and the group of experts, and the european parliament, and above all the legal affairs committee, which will be responsible here in parliament for the proposed reform of intellectual property rights.
mr. chairman, please! the internet governance forum is the most democratic forum today to discuss the future of the internet. it involves not only national governments, but also business, interest groups, ngos, citizens, and individuals. the discussion about the future of the internet today is the most crucial in the face of all the challenges we face. the internet is changing, evolving, the amount of time that internet users spend using applications is increasing at an incredibly fast rate, and the use of web browsers is decreasing. today, we use mobile devices more than computers or laptops. more and more applications are being developed, programs tailored to specific devices and often do not work with other types of devices. and all of these things together make the internet more and more powerful. unfortunately, the web is becoming less and less open, and so we, the internet users, are also at risk. so we need to have a conversation about how to keep the global internet open in the face of these technological changes that we're seeing. it is therefore important that the mandate of the internet governance forum be extended by the un general assembly.
mr president, i wish to make four points. firstly, we need to review the mandate of the internet governance forum, and i would thank pilar del castillo for this initiative. secondly, it is important because we are at the front of the new fight on essential values for the internet: freedom, net neutrality, privacy and security. we do not want balkanisation of the internet, and a multi-stakeholder model of governance of the internet is the only guarantee for keeping those values. thirdly, the multi-stakeholder model of internal governance is the best platform for global discussion on the balance between freedom, privacy, economic development and security, with full respect to all dimensions of those problems. fourthly, in europe we need a much stronger network among national fora of internet governance.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, mr ambassador, i have to ask you to stop this. would you agree with the comment that any labelling costs? so if it's cost, is that to say that we shouldn't label products at all because any labelling creates cost? and secondly, i would like to ask you, do you think there is such a thing as "consumer patriotism"? should we ban it in the european union? you can imagine that the german consumer wants to buy german meat, the french consumer wants to buy french meat, and the polish consumer wants to buy polish meat.
mr. chairman, please! i think this is a very useful discussion, despite the fact that we have very different opinions here. we all want consumers to have confidence in the food supply chain, we want to be able to avoid food adulteration, and the example of the horse added to beef, which has happened, is proof that adulteration does happen. we would all like to see our animals fed with good food. we remember the dioxin affair in europe and the bse issue. but at the same time, the introduction of meat labelling in products is often seen as a panacea to improve controls in the supply chain and prevent irregularities. the question then arises: if we want to prevent these irregularities or counterfeits, should we not better enforce the law that already exists? many consumers, but also many producers, are talking about over-regulation in the european union, not lack of it. and now the question is: will more information on labels radically improve this situation? secondly, there is the question of the country of origin, whether it is the origin of the animals or the place where the animal was slaughtered or the place where the carcass was dismembered. should this whole chain be on the label? i think that the remarks of mr wojciechowski, who spoke of the patriotism of consumers, are important and valuable. i'm a slow food person, so i understand that very well. the origin of ingredients should be indicated first and foremost, and this should be, in my view, the brand of the manufacturer. i think if we could achieve that, then we could achieve certain standards much more easily.
mr. chairman, please! if we identify the country of origin of wine and this information is extremely important for consumers, why should we not identify the country of origin of meat, both raw and processed? this is not just about quality issues, but also about a whole range of other information that is relevant to consumers. this is because in the european market, although it is a single market, there are many different rules on many issues, for example, on ritual slaughter. most countries allow this slaughter, but there are countries that do not allow it, and it is important information for many consumers that they buy meat from a country where there is no ritual slaughter. or the use of genetically modified feed my country poland is preparing to introduce (there is already a law in this area) a ban on the use of feed from genetically modified organisms and it may be important information for the consumer that meat from poland is meat from animals fed with non-gmo feed. and finally, this "consumer patriotism" (thank you for appreciating it, mr. mushroom). of course, this is also important, and we should respect the fact that consumers want to know whether a meat product is from their country or from another.
mr. chairman, please! the citizens of the european union want and have a right to know where the meat products they eat come from. they want to be able to make informed choices about where the meat comes from, whether the product is genetically modified or whether it comes from cloned animals. the mandatory indication of the origin of processed meat and, above all, the systematic quality control of foodstuffs is a necessary step to regain consumer confidence. the commission report indicates a significant increase in production costs as a result of the change of labels, whereas studies by consumer organisations show that these costs will not increase significantly. in the interests of the rights and health of citizens, the european commission should propose specific regulations on this matter, including the minimisation of additional financial burdens.
mr. chairman, please! consumers in the european union are tired of food scandals involving meat of unknown origin. the bitter aftermath of the 2013 horse scandal, which replaced beef with processed products like hamburgers and lasagna. it is therefore necessary to make it compulsory to indicate the country of origin of meat, not only unprocessed pork and poultry meat which is to take place from april this year but also processed meat used as an ingredient in other products. while i am aware that the need to indicate the country of origin of meat in processed food products may lead to higher prices due to additional administrative work, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, i believe that consumer safety should be a priority. it is also necessary to ensure effective control of the rules in place so that companies using meat in their products are aware that any breach of these rules will be met with an immediate and appropriate response from the control authorities.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (1). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 february 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. any eu regulation that increases the cost of a product, and thus the costs borne by consumers, and imposes administrative burdens on smes, creates opposition and increases antipathy towards the eu therefore, common sense should be the first thing to guide our decision-making. i think that when we are working on the form of the rules on the indication of the country of origin of meat, we should pay particular attention to two things. food safety should be a priority, so that consumers can be sure that the product they buy meets all the standards and that there are no adverse health effects from its consumption. regardless of where the meat is sourced, food safety should be a priority. the second issue concerns the studies carried out, which show that the main criterion on which consumers base their purchases is the price conditions of goods. in this case, we should focus on solutions that will keep the products offered for sale within a price range acceptable to consumers, especially since a significant part of farm income is used to meet current needs for food maintenance and purchase. so let us consider whether the final cost of introducing food labelling is not higher than the benefits we can derive from it and whether it will not be contrary to the rules of the internal market and pro-consumer attitudes.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! in the neighboring country of slovakia, hundreds of thousands of people voted yesterday in a national referendum to defend the rights of the family, to defend the natural order of marriage as the union of a man and a woman, to defend the rights of parents to raise their children in accordance with their parental responsibility and their conscience. this vote has a national dimension. it had no legal status, but we in the european parliament in particular should be aware of one thing: that almost twice as many people voted for family rights, for the natural order of marriage, as for the entire slovak national representation in the european parliament. it shows how important this voice is to us. slovakia told europe that there are millions of people living in our countries who want to live according to the rules of civilized life, who want to live in respect for family rights. and for that we all, all of europe, owe the slovak people a great debt of gratitude.
mr. chairman, please! sorry i'm late. i was at the foreign affairs committee. ladies and gentlemen! in the communist countries, the wolf law was a phenomenon, which in 1988 made poland the most liberal country in europe, including western europe. the bill is not in force today, but it has been drafted in a new version and will be presented to commissioner bieńkowska tomorrow. perhaps we can also make the european union a country of economic freedom. besides, i think the european union should be destroyed.
mr. postle, i think it was about carthage, and the european union is not a country.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the very difficult situation of dairy farmers in my country, poland. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the milk levy paid by the dairy farmers in the union. and all indications are that for the next 2014/2015 quota year, these penalties will reach an astronomical amount of eur 200 million. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the fine imposed on the dairy farmers in poland. at the same time, the european commission decided to support milk producers in the baltic states and finland with the so-called milk package of eur 28 million, while milk producers in poland are not included in this package. i therefore ask the commission to waive the levying of penalties for the 2014/2015 quota year, in particular in the event that the milk quotas for the whole union are not exceeded. as of 1 april this year, the milk production limitation is lifted.
mr. chairman, please! at the end of january, it was reported that france had signed a bilateral agreement with russia to resume exports of pigmeat, pig fat and pigmeat offal to that country. despite commissioner hogan's subsequent assurances that there will be no bilateral agreements with russia to ease the embargo, i find this situation very disturbing. breaking the solidarity of the eu and allowing russia to choose its partners from whom to buy its products while leaving its market closed to producers from other countries would be extremely damaging for the whole of the european union, because our strength is unity and consistency. if we deprive ourselves of this advantage, we risk becoming an unreliable and weak partner, something we cannot afford to do, especially in the current political situation.
thank you, mr. ambassador, for your meaningful speech. i just wanted to say that he was the last speaker in our debate. i would like to thank all the speakers, but especially the translators, who have shown a great deal of flexibility, because we agreed to work until 10 p.m., and you work longer. so on behalf of all members, i thank you.
madam president! three years ago, the european commission proposed a regulation on the exercise of the right to strike in the context of the freedom to provide services. the commission's aim was to codify the case law of the court of justice and to bring clarity to the law by confirming that the right to strike and the freedom to strike have the same weight as the freedom to provide services. the decree pointed out that the right to strike is not an absolute right and should be regulated. it also provides for a new mechanism for the notification of burdens resulting from labour disputes in cross-border situations. however, the proposal for a regulation has been criticised not only by business but also by trade unions. finally, the commission withdrew the proposal for the monti ii regulation because of the yellow card procedure. let me just remind you that some member states' parliaments did not accept this regulation, considering that it was an interference with the member states' competences. as we return to the monti ii proposal today, we must remember that, like any activity, the organisation of strikes should be based on the utmost responsibility.
mr. chairman, please! in the current crisis facing young people in europe, where on average one in five young people cannot find a job, and in some regions even one in two, the european commission's proposal to speed up the availability of funds for the youth employment initiative is a very good decision and gives hope for a quick improvement. we all know that time is of the essence during unemployment, because people who have been unemployed for a long time have a much harder time getting back into work. moreover, in many cases, the lack of work and income is pushing young people closer to the poverty line every day, and if they cross the poverty line, it further degrades their situation and their chances of reintegration into society. by launching pre-financing in 2015, we are giving a chance to rapidly intervene in regions where more than 25% of young people are unemployed, not in education or training. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's youth policy and its implementation in the member states and regions most affected by the crisis. but let us remember that what the european commission is guaranteeing today is the availability of funds, not the efficiency of their spending. with each new multiannual financial perspective, we see the requirements for the efficient management of european funds tightening up, a clear sign that not every euro spent is delivering the expected results. the additional requirements for the use of the total budget of eur 6 billion for this initiative and for reforms to increase the participation of young people in the labour market are designed to ensure that the measures taken today have a long-term impact and are not a one-off intervention with no future.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the commissioner that proper funding and the right use of the opportunities in the member states are crucial to the success of the 'youth guarantee' programme. and in this context, i would like to draw your attention to a problem that young people have pointed out to me many times: internships and traineeships. it is very important for gaining experience, acquiring practical skills and essential for dual education. however, it is not possible to indicate the place of the traineeship or the internship on several occasions. the european mobility of trainees and interns is therefore crucial and the designation of a single hub to provide information on possible places to undertake a traineeship or internship. the quality of these traineeships and the appropriate social protection of both trainees and trainees are also very important. and that is what should be enforced very strongly by the member states. i would also mention the importance of proper training programmes, which should be developed with the participation of the labour market.
i would like to inform you that i have given a voice to those members from the various political groups who were at the top of my list, but i have also not given a voice to many members whom i know, respect and value, but i have not given a voice to them, so i would ask you not to suggest that i am giving a voice to my friends here. i am in my 11th year in the european parliament and i know many, many members and i am very sorry that i could not give them all a voice today. i hope i can do that next time. please accept my apologies, if i couldn't give everyone a voice today, it really wasn't because of my ill will. the subject of this debate is of great importance to every member state, including mine, mr ambassador. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. thank you, commissioner thyssen, for this valuable initiative. i am glad that the announcement that the fight against youth unemployment will be the priority of this term of office has not been an empty declaration. that the extremely high level of youth unemployment requires rapid and decisive action has been said, also in this room, many times. it is good that this time we have a concrete proposal which i am convinced will make it much easier to implement the youth employment initiative. the region i come from lublin region is eligible for support under the initiative. in my conversations with local authorities and potential project beneficiaries, the issue of financial liquidity was a frequent topic. the possibility of receiving an advance payment of 30% will certainly help to accelerate the implementation of projects at regional level by local authorities and smaller operators. i therefore hope that parliament and the council will adopt the proposed regulation swiftly.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the representative of the european commission for his participation in today's debate. i am very pleased that the commission has proposed to speed up the payment of advances to the member states. the commission has already adopted 28 of the 34 operational programmes initiating the initiative and has closed negotiations on a further 4 as indicated in the proposal for a regulation. these figures show the strong commitment of both the member states and the european institutions to improving the situation of young people in the labour market. i hope that the €1 billion mobilised this year will help to generate new investment and economic growth. according to the latest figures, more than 7 million young europeans are not in employment or education. moreover, we also have a problem of unfilled jobs in the european union. i hope that the implementation of the initiative will help to solve the problem of mismatching resources to labour markets.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by ms marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the promotion of financial participation by employees (o-000002/2015 - b8-0103/2015) (2014/2987 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! it is becoming increasingly clear that the union has abandoned the idea of its founding fathers of building a social market economy, where not only the costs of the crisis but also the benefits of prosperity are shared by all social groups. today, corporate profits - especially those of multinational corporations - are increasing, and real wages for workers are decreasing. employee financial participation mechanisms or the institution of employee ownership of the enterprise are important ways of tackling this problem. if properly implemented, they can help to address the problem of dramatically increasing social inequalities, while strengthening the links between workers and their workplace. an analysis co-authored by an expert in the field, professor lowitzsch, commissioned by the european commission, found that after 30 years of research into examples of employee financial participation, companies that are partly or wholly owned by their employees generate higher revenues, are more efficient, generate more jobs and pay more taxes than their competitors without this type of financial participation. at the macroeconomic level, these companies achieve higher productivity levels, which also leads to greater competitiveness and growth. at the regional level, they make employee-owned companies more attached to their place of origin, more resistant to external or foreign takeovers. however, we must remember that they also carry significant risks. first, the implementation of these mechanisms in small and micro enterprises needs to be very careful, as they can affect the competitiveness of these enterprises. the second risk is more related to employee ownership in investment projects. the recent crisis has made it very clear that in the event of an economic collapse, workers may lose not only their jobs but also their savings in company shares. in the committee on employment and social affairs we have jointly drawn up a question to the european commission in which we stress that while promoting broadly defined worker participation, we must also consider mechanisms to protect workers against the loss of their life's work and ask how the commission intends to promote worker participation and the exchange of best practices in employee ownership of enterprises, such as those in the uk that anthea mcintyre has spoken of.
mr. chairman, please! while sharing the idea of financial participation by employees in ownership, it should be noted that the decisions to introduce any such schemes should remain within the exclusive sphere of influence of the ownership of the owners of the enterprise. i am therefore concerned about the european commission's proposals, which suggest the possibility of introducing a european system of financial participation for workers. proposals like this must be challenged. especially if they are to include micro, small and medium-sized family businesses. what is meant to be voluntary should not be formalized. and certainly not the creation of bureaucratic and costly solutions such as promotion centres, expert groups, the adoption of new legislative norms. such solutions are part of the culture of doing business, not of legislation. the domain of business is the ability to bear the risk of one's own investments. if so, then the priority in the management of the enterprise must be knowledge and experience alone, i.e. competence. these criteria cannot be replaced by bureaucratic ideas for introducing non-market rules of interference in decision-making and accountability. their implementation would have to end in a catastrophe similar to the collapse of the communist economy based on enterprises run by the proletariat.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you and many of the people here have put a lot of emphasis on protecting the labour rights of those who have become owners of the enterprise. so i have a question for you, but also for the european commission. if it is said that not all employees have the same knowledge about finance, about the level of risk in the free market, about the management of the company, should they be allowed on the one hand to have the same property rights in the company, the same rights to manage the company, but also to differentiate the rights to protect their property from other co-owners? on what basis would such equality (in the idiom, because it is de facto inequality) arise?
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
madam president! freedom of movement within the european union is one of the most important achievements of integration on our continent. however, the privileges for those travelling on european roads should also be linked to the responsibility for the offences committed. member states should have the tools to enforce penalties for road traffic offences effectively. to refrain from imposing a penalty because it is not technically possible to identify the address of the offender would clearly be a violation of the principle of equality of all citizens of the european union, but above all a compromise in today's world. in poland, where the number of road accidents is one of the highest in europe and where they often end in fatalities, the final harmonisation of these rules is particularly welcome. in my country, road accidents and collisions caused by foreigners account for about 3% of all road accidents and collisions, the vast majority of which are caused by eu citizens. with the second highest death rate in the european union, each such incident is of great importance and the possibility of effectively punishing the perpetrator plays an important preventive role. it is also worth noting that the community countries - denmark, the united kingdom and ireland - which have so far been excluded from the scheme, have agreed to join it after a transitional period. this shows the common conviction that the whole of the union needs to be covered by this system and the positive results of the implementation of this directive in the member states that have already transposed it into their legislation, so i am very pleased and would also like to point out that it would be good to extend this legislation, especially to neighbouring countries.
madam president! the issue of impunity for foreign drivers has long been raised internationally, both by ministers and the media, and above all by ordinary citizens who are dissatisfied with this injustice. when we look at the european commission's data on traffic offences and traffic offences from the european union, this analysis shows that the percentage of non-residents committing traffic offences and traffic offences is often higher than the percentage of citizens of the country, especially when it comes to speeding. last year alone, more than 20,000 people were killed on european union roads. unfortunately, we must remember that even the best preventive measures in the field of road safety are ineffective when there is a sense of impunity among road users, among drivers. it is not unusual for a driver to break a dozen or so road rules in several member states during a single journey in one day, and to be found depends on the bilateral exchange of information between selected services in the country concerned. i am glad that this directive will come into force, because i believe that it will simplify and speed up the mutual exchange of information and data on drivers between the countries of the european union, reduce the feeling of impunity and increase the fair treatment of drivers regardless of their nationality.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, if tomorrow’s minsk ii last-chance talks fail to bring credible peace in the face of the naked war by russia against ukraine and the mountains of lies and broken promises, it will at last be time to move away from the logic of persuasion to the logic of deterrence. the eu has shown angelic patience and indulgence – and the word ‘angelic’ comes from the name angela – but we have reached our limits. quantitative and qualitative change in our action is needed because so far we have been doing too little, too late. enhancing ukrainian defence capabilities would create incentives for russia to back down. on the contrary, the russian military advantage over ukraine openly invites russia to continue the invasion, as we are witnessing. ukraine has the right to defend itself. we have the responsibility to protect the victim against the aggressor in the name of our values. if we surrender our values, we ourselves will be in danger. the crisis in ukraine is indeed about our own future and our own security. we may wish for there to be a diplomatic solution, but a military solution by russia is taking place before our eyes. in order to achieve a political solution, leverage is needed to bring the aggressor to true – not potemkin-village type – negotiations and to bring binding and executable results. the time has come to apply reverse logic, increase leverage through pressure, increase economic sanctions against russia and close the gap in russia’s military advantage – the gap between invader and victim – in order to achieve a peaceful solution in the end. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – not yet aware, thank you, but not surprised.
i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to do this. i have some very simple questions to ask you, also in view of the institutional problems in europe. i would like to ask you about the outcome of yesterday's council meeting and about the negotiating mandate for tomorrow's meeting in minsk. i understand that you will be attending this meeting as the union's representative for international affairs, because i would like the whole european union to be represented there. if so, can you tell me whether chancellor merkel and president hollande have a mandate from the whole of europe to negotiate this and what is the specific nature of that mandate? that's the first thing. i would like us to remember that ukraine is not only the donbas, which is being fought for all the time today, where hundreds, thousands of innocent civilians are killed by rocket fire and kalashnikovs, but also crimea, which was illegally occupied by russia. the question is, will the negotiations on crimea also be involved? i would like to draw your attention to one more thing. ladies and gentlemen, europe is unfortunately showing its impotence all the time against vladimir putin, who is simply laughing and pursuing his imperial policy in ukraine. the russian tank cannot be stopped by europe pouring sand under its traps or cutting its fuel supply to slow it down. the fuel supply should just be cut off. this requires decisive action and decisive sanctions, not a discussion about how we will lose on our economic interests, so let ukraine do what it wants, let russia do what it wants. finally, the last thing putin does is ignore all the agreements as before. he reads all the treaties, agreements and international law in such a way that he searches only for what is convenient for him, pretending that there are no such provisions that bind him to anything. finally, i call for firmness and for the european union, represented by our institutions, to act in solidarity.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you have said some terrible things here, mr. ambassador, but you are another person on the same side of the room who, among other things, says with great pretensions that two heads of large european states, and not a representative of the european commission, are going to negotiate. what is the effect? we think the european institutions are weak because you on the right are notorious for weakening them. do you not think it would be in our common interest to strengthen the european institutions - the commission and the european parliament - so that we can be represented together?
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. - what? don't you think that the escalation of the armed actions in ukraine in recent days is the result of leaks that president hollande and mrs. merkel are proposing to freeze the conflict on the borders of conquest, that such a message is actually an incentive for the aggressor to continue the aggression and a warning to the aggressor that at any moment he will lose his national territory forever?
the question asked by raising the blue card. a colleague spoke of double standards, but when france was threatened in the 1940s and 1950s, when it was said that soviet tanks could be in paris, you demanded western solidarity, clarity. and even a politician who was critical of the united states - de gaulle - at that time called for the unity of the west and the unity of europe. i have the impression that you are the one who applies double standards - one when the existence of france is threatened, and another when the existence of our eastern neighbors is threatened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. chairman, please! the dogma, or, as one might prefer, the axiom, in our discussions about the war in ukraine, was that there was no military solution to the problem here in parliament and in the union in general. mr bütikofer has said that again today. but that was a relic of reality, and relic of reality never leads to effective politics. it is no wonder that european policy is powerless and out of step with events. in fact, the conflict in ukraine is being resolved militarily right before our eyes. anyone who doesn't see that is delusional. one side of the conflict - russia - has been relying on military means from the very beginning and has not hesitated to hand over weapons to the separatists. russia never accepted our axiom and therefore had an immediate advantage in political disputes and diplomatic games. the latest proposals for a ceasefire would mean that the strategy had succeeded and that force had won. it would mean that russia has succeeded in dividing ukraine by military means, it would mean the de facto surrender of ukraine and it would also mean the defeat of the west. and there is no guarantee that this will stop further russian aggression and expansion, or even encourage it, and then colleague schaffhauser will share poland with russia, not ukraine. in this situation, the demand for the rearmament of ukraine is not an expression of militarism, aggressiveness or a rejection of the need to seek an agreement, but a path to peace. only when we convince russia that it cannot win this conflict militarily will it agree to a non-military solution to this conflict and give negotiations and peace a chance.
blue-card question. – thank you, ms kallas, for accepting a blue card. would you agree with me that, for economic sanctions to have an impact on a country like russia, with big resources, we would need a much longer time? many people say that up to four or five months of sanctions are not going to work. would you agree with me that, for the sanctions to bite, we simply need much more time and we have to be prepared for two or three years? what is your opinion on that?
mr. chairman, please! we all want peace, but that's why we should remember that the war in the donbass in eastern ukraine could not have happened at all if we had reacted in a decisive way, but politically. after the aggression in crimea, the aggressor would hesitate to take further steps. the declarations made at this moment by chancellor merkel and her colleagues that we will not give arms to ukraine, or even more so, that we will not accept ukraine into the north atlantic alliance, are completely irresponsible. only the awareness that the continuation of aggression will be met with our determined and political response can stop the aggressor. if we fail to deliver that message in these talks, we can be certain that russian aggression will continue.
mr. chairman, please! just as we must counter the proliferation of nuclear weapons, so we must respond to states that threaten to use them. we know that nuclear weapons have been not only a weapon of mass destruction but also a weapon of state terror. since the beginning of this century, russia has used nuclear weapons against a non-nuclear state in its war doctrine. i strongly urge you, madam vice president, to speak out at the upcoming conference about the inadmissibility of such a position. in practice, the russian position means the threat of using nuclear weapons against one of the members of the european union. obtaining a declaration that it is unacceptable for a nuclear state to use nuclear weapons against a state which does not possess them would be a very important step towards making the world safer and, above all, towards greater security for the nations for which we are responsible. i encourage you, madam vice-president, to take this initiative at the conference that is coming up.
mr. chairman, please! i support the very good report by mr goerens because the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a very important platform for open, democratic and in-depth dialogue, partnership and for the development of constructive policy solutions in the european union and acp governments to overcome the problems posed by current local, regional and global challenges. the assembly actively monitors developments in the political, economic and social situation in the acp states, seeking to promote development goals and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including respect for fundamental social rights, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance, which are integral to sustainable development. at the last session of the assembly in strasbourg, i was co-rapporteur of the report on the private sector development strategy, which was voted unanimously by both houses and which, in the same spirit, sets out ways of helping the private sector. the report stresses the importance of effective public-private partnerships. this dialogue between local and national authorities and the private sector also encourages the involvement of the private sector in the formulation and implementation of development policy. this single example shows that cooperation between the acp countries and the european union is necessary and very important.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i'm listening to this discussion and i'm outraged and disgusted because we have celebrated the 9th world day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation the 9th time. what's the data? the data is that 140 million women worldwide are mutilated, that two million women suffer from it every year, that 6,000 women are mutilated every day, and half a million in the european union, in europe. it's appalling that in this day and age, in the 21st century, such sadistic practices are taking place. i've been listening to your speech, and i'm afraid i can't find anything specific. we can talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk. women are suffering. who will remember them if we do not remember them effectively today? commissioner, what are the specific actions? when will a road map be drawn up to eliminate this abhorrent practice?
in writing. statistics show that there are 500,000 female victims of fgm in europe and 180,000 women and girls at risk. female genital mutilation is a particularly cruel form of violence against women and girls, one that is deeply rooted in some traditions and religions. it is a violation of fundamental human rights and the principle of equality between women and men in the most radical and brutal way. the opposition to female genital mutilation is also expressed in article 38 of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which has already been ratified by 8 eu countries and is signed and in the process of being ratified by 14 more. poland is also among them, having accepted the law on ratification of the convention in the lower house of parliament on 6 february this year. the convention prohibits the justification of violence by custom, tradition or religion (article 42), which still occurs in the modern world: women are stoned and buried alive for alleged treason, raped with impunity, sold, enslaved. the end of violence against women is possible through the recognition and promotion of the principle of equality between women and men, which is promoted by the convention. the eu should therefore join the agreement as a party as soon as possible in order to encourage member states to accelerate their ratification.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! how often do we hear that the best interests of the child are the highest law, that we must do everything to ensure that our youngest generation, our future, really, has the best possible conditions for life and development. the brutality of daily events shows that we must still make new efforts to protect these children. it is with the greatest discomfort that i inform you that the two years of work on these reports is not our boast. the dispute over jurisdiction is what's taking so long. fortunately, it was overcome and today we can say that these eight countries will join the hague convention, which we welcome, because it is a very important instrument regulating relations between the member states of the european union and third countries in relation to such an important problem as child abduction. but we must remember one more thing: that any kind of regulation should be extremely simple and clear so that everyone understands it. moreover, they should also be flexible - so as to adapt them to the child's situation, so that the child's best interests, which we so often talk about, are always our highest and foremost concern. i am very grateful to the commissioner for mentioning the brussels ii regulation. i have a great favor to ask of you. we are waiting for the european commission to come forward with a proposal in the legal affairs committee to review the functioning of the brussels ii regulation, because there are many problems that have not been solved, and which are extremely important in the matter of cross-border childcare and the provision of mutual contact for each parent and the child.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i agree that the hague convention is very necessary, that the protection of children's rights is a priority, but do you share my opinion - and this is the opinion i meet and is reported to me by voters in my homeland of poland - that very often national courts rely on the hague convention to arbitrarily decide to give the father of a child who does not know the father's language?
madam president, the convention is crucial for at least two reasons. firstly it involves the well-being and custody of children, which should be our priority, and secondly it touches upon the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it is sad but true that, in instances of the separation of parents originating from different states, very often the lack of cooperation between those states is used as a tool for securing the custody of a child. this convention aims to resolve this problem by establishing competent courts and applying the law of the state of residence of the said child. i would like to take this opportunity to underline that child abduction is not only the problem of third countries. in the committee on petitions we receive plenty of signals from eu citizens regarding cases of forced adoptions and child abductions. in fact this problem touches upon so many cross-cultural families that this has been established as a matter of urgency in our committee. last but not least i think it is very important to promote the role of the european parliament mediator for parental child abduction and join our efforts in protecting the most defenceless eu citizens.
madam president! we are pleased that more countries are joining the hague convention. this convention should be read along with the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child, which beautifully states that a child has the right to be brought up in happiness, love and understanding. these are perhaps the only legal acts of international law where the word love has legal meaning. the hague convention is important to counter child abduction, but it also has to be remembered that its very important article 13 says that even if a child is abducted, if there is a serious risk that the child's return would expose them to physical or mental harm or otherwise put them in an intolerable situation, then these provisions must not be applied. these are very important rules to remember.
madam president, madam president of the council! i would also like to refer to the ukraine issue, because there are voices in this chamber which, as a pole and a member of the european parliament, are very troubling to me. ladies and gentlemen, i have no doubt that today our task as members of the european union is to help ukraine at all costs and to strive to ensure that ukraine maintains its territorial integrity. let's remember that this is not just a question of donbass, but also crimea, which has already been occupied by russia. i am very concerned about some of the voices that are being heard here, which are saying almost directly: we must make a deal with russia at all costs because this is a matter of economic interests. i emphasize again: there are no economic interests that would allow us, as honest people, to sell ukraine. these negotiations, which are not really being conducted by the whole of the european union, but by germany and france, are, i think, more reminiscent of the yalta formula than of the normandy formula. we must not allow ourselves to be unrepresented today. i'm asking you, where is your chairman, donald tusk? yesterday, mrs mogherini said that the 'normandy formula' had already been the subject of a council decision. in that case, i ask - because i did not hear an answer yesterday - what is the legitimacy, what is the negotiating mandate of mrs merkel and mr hollande? what are they negotiating and what are the terms? i'm very interested in this because, as a pole, i don't agree to sell the ukrainian state in exchange for some vague economic interests. i want to stress this very strongly, because i do not think there are any worried colleagues in this chamber from lithuania, latvia, estonia, romania, slovakia and hungary. remember, when it comes to poland, slovakia, hungary and romania, we're talking about a war that's happening right outside our borders. we should be part of this negotiation. i'm concerned that the polish government has taken this case. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. ladies and gentlemen! no, not at all. history, especially the 1930s, teaches us the dramatic consequences of european inaction. today, we must not agree to russia's tearing ukraine apart and swallowing it up in pieces. this is a matter of our responsibility, responsibility for the integrity of european countries and the integrity of their borders. if we stop this process, if we prevent it, it will be a success for europe. if europe agrees to a rotten compromise, it will be a failure.
madam president! these three points of the nearest informal summit are apparently different, but in fact they are closely linked. it is dedicated to the security of the european union, its member states and its citizens in the broadest sense. it was said - and chairman weber said it - that we need a clear course on this. threats come from many different sources, but their sources lie in a volatile situation, particularly in the european union's immediate neighbourhood. to counter terrorism, we need efforts that lead to closer coordination of security services. we've had many reports after the events, after the terrorist attacks, that the knowledge of the perpetrators was, perhaps, just poorly coordinated. but we must remember that we cannot accept too far-reaching restrictions on the rights of citizens, because that would also mean a victory for terrorists. as we fight for our values, for our freedom, let us also remember that citizens have the right to be free from fear. it is right that commissioner timmermans says that freedom is impossible without security. in this context, we must work towards effective solutions. the president of the council invited the president of ukraine to the summit. this is very important because there is a drama in eastern ukraine that also affects our situation, both because of political and economic issues, but also because of the great humanitarian crisis that is going on there. we have some hopes with what's happening today, with the meeting in minsk. but will these solutions stop the escalation? we also need to consider how we can protect ourselves from the misinformation that comes from the east. we all know the media's distorted view of reality. they also affect the perception of this reality in europe. i would like the situation in ukraine, and in particular the creation of these self-proclaimed republics, not to affect the member states of the european union. such threats are being signalled, in particular by the baltic states.
mr. chairman, please! we have heard that the next summit will have three themes: counter-terrorism, the state of the economic and monetary union and the issue of ukraine. president timmermans has put it beautifully: fear. fear as a source of radicalization. and it's no wonder, yes, people feel fear, they feel fear, they feel fear in the streets, in the airport, in the train, in school, etc. they also fear losing their jobs, because of the prospect of a low pension, of getting a job in general (especially young people), they fear being unable to pay back a loan and therefore losing their housing, etc., and finally the new element they fear war. president timmermans, you said that we need to be careful. it takes thought, but it also takes action. people are asking who we're leaning on. you were talking about these new instruments. the key question is: will the council tomorrow really bring us new solutions, new instruments, new hopes? it will be a source of deradicalization. without the answers to these questions, deradicalization is unlikely. and the very last note: the glorious 90 million in aid to ukraine is 1.83 euros per ukrainian citizen, which is not that much.
mr. chairman, please! we're looking at three fundamental problems. let us remember that terrorism has its external causes and roots, but it is also the result of our mistakes and failures in europe. the second problem is that the crisis in greece will not resolve itself. only greece can do this with the support of the union. the union cannot say no and greece can't impose conditions that are too costly. we need common action, reforms and agreement. otherwise, the same situation will occur in other parts of europe. the eu's biggest failure to act towards ukraine was the lack of support for reforms in the country and very limited humanitarian aid. in history, it's often necessary to choose the lesser of two evils. sometimes difficult concessions, even against one's will, must still be made today to defend the state and the country's development potential. only a developing ukraine will be attractive for a return in the future. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! today's talks in minsk will take place on a special day because it is the 70th anniversary of the yalta agreements. 70 years ago, those agreements were not only a humiliating act of weakness on the part of the west, but also a gross violation of the human rights of millions of people in central europe. i'm talking about it today because the consequences of that shame are still with us. the fact that our parliament has not wanted to remind us of this is unfortunately a sad act of contempt for our history and for the millions of people living in half the countries of the european union. i just hope that tomorrow, after today's talks in minsk, we can say with a clear conscience that we did not take part in the new yalta.
in writing. the european union was faced with the ultimate question, the question of its existence. it's clear we're in a situation where we can't make any decisions. the european union is a force for good in the world, and it is a force for good in the world. what do we have left? a two-polar union divided between the euro area and the countries outside it, or a bold, forward-looking decision to change the treaties and to break up the european union politically and transform into an economic union a european free trade area without political decisions. the end of the european parliament, the european commission and the redundant institutions of the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee will be a new beginning for europe. it will allow for rapid economic growth unhindered by redundant administration and regulation. today, gdp growth in europe is slowly approaching 1% per year, while china, brazil and the usa are growing at an annual rate of 35%. the natural energy and entrepreneurship of europeans is blocked by a dead administration and a growing bureaucracy. therefore, only a bold decision can put europe back on the path to sustainable economic growth and prosperity for europeans. in the last european elections, citizens massively supported the eurosceptics, giving the green light to such solutions.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatory states, including all eu states. i therefore welcomed the accession of gabon. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 member states, including all eu states. so i was happy to accept andorra's invitation. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatory states, including all eu states. i therefore welcomed the accession of the republic of seychelles. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatory states, including all eu states. i therefore welcomed the accession of russia. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. the accession of new countries to the hague convention should be welcomed as it increases the emotional security of children and both parents. the hague convention regulates so-called parental kidnapping, where one parent, without the consent and knowledge of the other, takes a child to another country. the convention restores the situation to the state it was in before the abduction, unless it is contrary to the best interests of the child (the child has been adopted into a new environment). the convention also facilitates the establishment of contact between both parents and the child, which is extremely important in view of the child's universal right to contact and education by both parents. the accession of new countries to the convention raised the issue of revising eu rules governing custody and parental responsibility for parents from different eu countries. it is also important to have national legislation recognising parental kidnapping as a crime and ensuring fair child custody processes, allowing for in-depth examination of the child's situation and review of decisions taken in lower courts. in this context, it is worth highlighting the importance of mediation institutions and information campaigns for parents to be aware of the symmetry of their rights and obligations related to the upbringing and care of the child, including the prohibition of leaving the country with the child without the consent and agreement of the other parent.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatories, including all eu countries. i therefore welcomed the accession of albania. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatories, including all eu countries. i therefore welcomed the accession of singapore. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatories, including all eu countries. i therefore welcomed the accession of morocco. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction has 93 signatories, including all eu countries. i therefore welcomed the accession of armenia. the vote was over 90% in favour, which shows the weight of the situation regardless of political views. the convention is the fundamental instrument for ensuring respect for the rights of a child who has been abducted by one of his or her parents. child abduction is a crime, a violation of human rights, guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights, among others. every year in the european union, we have an average of 3,000 child abductions between eu countries, kidnappings without the consent of the other parent. at the petitions committee, of which i am a member, we receive many reports of child abductions. these cases are among the most emotional. it shows how significant and how common this problem is. the accession of new countries to the convention is good news, and it will lead to more effective investigations of child abduction in the future. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
in writing. the verification of members' seats, which the legal affairs committee is required to carry out under the rules of procedure of parliament, is a formality, a normal administrative procedure of this house, and an opportunity to look in detail at the elections to the european parliament and, drawing attention to the most important problems, to put forward proposals that could contribute to the implementation of the methods of holding them. the communications published by the member states after the elections held in may 2014 included annotations on cases of disenfranchisement of certain citizens. this applies to irish, danish, cypriot, maltese and british nationals living outside their own country. this is a clear violation of the rights of eu citizens (the right to free movement of persons and the right to vote), and it is also completely incomprehensible when we consider the technological possibilities available to almost every european. i subscribe to the rapporteur's call on the commission to eliminate such cases in future and to oblige member states to develop effective voting systems for their citizens abroad.
in writing. the report concerns voting irregularities in european elections in some eu countries. the report calls for the european elections not to be used to disenfranchise citizens who are not in their country of residence at the time of the elections. in this context, it calls on the commission to ensure that no member state allows such a possibility. the report calls on the member states to ensure that registration formalities for citizens of other member states participating in european elections, both as voters and as candidates, are simplified, in particular by removing unnecessary administrative barriers. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. the european system for the exchange of driving data for vehicles with foreign registration plates is a key instrument in the fight against road traffic offences and crimes in the eu. it is primarily aimed at ending the impunity of drivers who break the law outside their own country. the european data exchange system will contribute to improving road safety and will be much more effective than bilateral agreements between member states. this is a major step towards achieving the eu's target of halving the number of road deaths and reducing road injuries by 40% by 2020. progress in this area is particularly important in the face of the effects of the financial crisis in the form of an increase in the number of obsolete vehicles, drastic cuts in infrastructure maintenance expenditure and a lack of funds to finance new facilities. given the seriousness of the subject, we cannot allow a legal loophole to be created in this area, and i therefore support the decision to base the act on the provisions on transport safety rather than on the provisions on police cooperation in criminal matters, because the aim of the directive is road safety and the exchange of information is only a means of action. the extension of the territorial scope of the new law to denmark, the united kingdom and ireland resulting from these changes is also highly desirable as it will ensure the harmonisation of the rules throughout the eu.
in writing. the exchange of information on road safety offences is the culmination of many years of efforts to reduce the number of road accidents, road deaths and injuries and their consequences. the offences are usually cumulative in the individual countries, but without taking into account offences committed on the roads of other countries. in the age of the open and freely accessible road network, this had to change. this report is leading us in that direction. it's in our mutual interest.
in writing. i supported the report on a directive to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related offences or offences. in my view, the adoption of this act will effectively reduce the number of offences committed by reckless drivers from other member states. the only reason why they have so far avoided liability is that the law enforcement authorities did not have the data of the owners of cars registered in other eu countries and therefore the proceedings could not be effectively initiated. although attempts have been made to resolve the problem through bilateral agreements, experience has shown that such approaches have caused a great deal of conflict and dissatisfaction between the various traffic control authorities. now, this situation will be resolved by the coming into force of the legislation in question. i am also convinced that they will be effective in improving road safety in the eu and reducing road fatalities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the exchange of information on road traffic offenders because i believe that transport safety is one of the most important issues that we should address at european level. freedom of movement, which is now a cornerstone of european integration, should also guarantee the possibility of punishing those who break the rules of the road and pose a real threat to the health and life of eu citizens. member states should have effective tools to enforce penalties against non-residents who break national road rules. however, it should be noted that such an act of providing the driver with address and other personal data should take into account all the restrictions related to the exchange and protection of personal data. european regulations should pay particular attention to the confidentiality of the information exchanged in the procedures for the transfer of personal data between the competent authorities of the member states. i'm glad the solution we've adopted provides such protection. at the same time, i would like to express my satisfaction that the member states denmark, ireland and the united kingdom which have so far remained outside the system will become part of it after the transitional periods. i think that's the best indication of how effective this mechanism is. i think it is also worth considering extending these regulations to eu-associated countries, in particular those countries that belong to the eastern partnership.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft agreement and protocol on a partnership on sustainable fisheries between the european union and the republic of senegal. the european union established relations with the republic of senegal in the fisheries area on 1 june 1981 and the renewed protocols concluded in 2002 expired in 2006. the commission has therefore initiated the renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european union, which has resulted in the proposal for the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement. the appropriate management of the protocol will undoubtedly require clarity and commitment from the parties concerned throughout its life. given the opportunities for senegal's economy to develop through the rational use of available resources, in line with the principles of sustainable fisheries and best industry practices, the new agreement and protocol are mutually beneficial based on available fish stocks and future opportunities for cooperation on other species, and taking into account the opportunity to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with eu vessels, while providing the eu market with high quality fishery products. in addition, the satellite vessel monitoring system and the cooperation between the eu and the republic of senegal on vessel monitoring and tracking in senegalese waters will help the local authorities to step up the fight against illegal and unregulated fishing.
in writing. this fisheries partnership agreement will allow eu vessels to fish in the waters of the republic of senegal. the agreement, which will be concluded for a period of five years, allows the fishing of 14 000 tonnes of tuna and 2 000 tonnes of hake. as with all other fisheries partnership agreements, the agreement includes a commitment to increase local knowledge of fish stocks and to develop strategies for fisheries and the development of the local fishing fleet. i voted for the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! torture is unacceptable and there is no discussion, no debate, no difference of opinion. let no one say we disagree on this, for we do not. i would like to say, as the polish proverb says, not to throw out the baby with the bath, that is, that the justified condemnation of torture and the use of illicit means should not be a pretext for abandoning the fight against islamic terrorists, for abandoning the fight against any kind of terrorism. i want to say this very clearly and very clearly, we condemn torture, but at the same time we must continue to support those who are fighting against a threat that affects our parliament, our citizens, our taxpayers and our voters.
in writing. from its inception, the union was supposed to stand guard over democracy and respect for human rights, freedom and security. and she's always been an ally of the united states in the fight against terrorism. it also reaffirms its commitment to close cooperation in order to prevent acts of terrorism, while respecting the common values. these two facts are not in conflict, but on the contrary, respect for human rights allows us to fight terrorism effectively. the union cannot therefore accept the toleration of methods which are contrary to international law and cannot allow interrogation methods which violate human dignity to be used. support and use of existing tools and organisations that combat breaches of the peace and terrorism should be encouraged.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it highlights one of the most important issues facing the world today. terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is one of the most serious threats to peace and security in the world, and the rise of racism is further increasing the sense of insecurity among eu citizens. a comprehensive approach to countering radicalisation and terrorism is therefore necessary. to this end, member states should, in addition to cooperating with each other, cooperate closely with the specialised agencies (eurojust, europol, cepol), making full use of existing capacities and legal and judicial instruments available. the common foreign policy should focus on cooperation with third countries, as these can become important partners in the fight against terrorism. external action to build capacity to counter terrorism and radical propaganda on the internet and other media should be stepped up. the possibility of imposing sanctions on states and governments responsible for the financing of terrorists or terrorist organisations should also be seriously considered.
in writing. i strongly condemn all acts of terrorism, both within europe and beyond. but to counter such acts of violence by force, by retaliating by attacking the countries where terrorists are trained, and by harassing the followers of religions that encourage murder in the name of higher values, is the wrong way to go. the european union is based on democracy and dialogue, and its main idea was to prevent armed conflict. so, remembering why we are united and why we are working together for the freedom and security of europe, let us not encourage violence and discrimination. solidarity and coordination are the basis for effective counter-terrorism. strengthening internal security in the member states will result in a strengthening of internal security in the eu. we must not forget that terrorism is a global threat and that international cooperation is essential to ensure that responses to threats are swift and effective. we as members of the european parliament have a duty to promote the idea of dialogue and equality, while at the same time discouraging radical attitudes and criticising extremist behaviour. very often it is the lack of understanding and mutual respect that leads to acts of violence. let us do everything in our power to counter terrorism with common sense and calm.
in writing. in discussing terrorism and counter-terrorism, i wanted to highlight the huge role of education, which is not adequately highlighted in counter-terrorism strategy and measures. the protection of external borders, the exchange of data, cooperation between countries and the safeguarding of internal security are undoubtedly key elements in the fight against terrorism. we must remember, however, that the threat of terrorism is not limited to the middle east. more and more young europeans are embracing very radical views and are willing to kill to defend their values. that is why it is so important that we focus on working with young people, on teaching tolerance, respect for other cultures and religions, a culture of discussion and communication. schools are a key element in preventing and countering radicalisation. it's supposed to be a double feature. on the one hand, to instill in young people the ideas of tolerance, integration, dialogue, respect and cultural diversity, and on the other to be sensitive to the emergence of very radical attitudes among young people. good communication between school, pupil and parent, taking into account the cultural specificities of young people, is a key prerequisite for countering their radicalisation. it should be emphasised, of course, that this challenge of indirectly combating extremism does not lie solely with teachers. on the contrary, it requires the involvement of the media, ngos and experts from the local communities to be effective.
in writing. i welcome the vote to extend the mandate of the internet governance forum for another five years. the forum's mission is not yet complete and i am glad that most of the members are aware of this. the internet is a public space, by its very nature free and open to all. it's good for democracy, good for cultural diversity, good for the economy. it's the impetus for innovation and all kinds of exchanges. it is intended to serve the eu's digital single market. the internet is a collaborative, trust-based system, and it needs clear rules. the growth of the internet economy is forecast to be almost 11% in the eu. in turn, the share of this economy in gdp is expected to increase from 3,8% in 2010 to 5,7% in 2016. the resolution stresses that 2015 will therefore be a pivotal year for internet governance. the internet is a global resource and should never be monopolized by any single group. it cannot be held hostage by particular economic or political interests. its enormous potential must be harnessed to ensure the trust of its users by processing their personal data in a secure manner. the internet governance forum, which is a continuation of the mandate of the world summit on the information society, is designed to serve the network security.
in writing. eu citizens want and have a right to know where their meat and processed products come from. consumers don't want to have horses on their plates instead of beef, genetically modified meat or meat from cloned animals. therefore, the voice of the public should be heard and the mandatory indication of the origin of meat should be introduced in order to restore consumer confidence in the sector. systematic food quality control is also essential for the rights and health of eu citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission should make a new legislative proposal on this matter. the solution proposed by the commission must also take into account the need to minimise the additional financial burden on producers and consumers.
in writing. i do not support the text of the resolution drafted by the envi committee, which calls on the european commission to adopt legislation introducing the obligation to indicate the origin of meat contained in processed food. the new act would significantly increase the cost of producing meat products, as labelling would have to include both the place of birth of the animal, its rearing and its slaughter. as 90% of refineries are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), the new rules would have a negative impact on the generation of growth, the creation of jobs and the competitiveness of the european economy. it is estimated that administrative costs would increase by 30% and products containing processed meat would increase by 5-9%. contrary to the assumptions of the rapporteurs, the introduction of the mandatory labelling will not solve the problems of food adulteration, such as the recently revealed practices of replacing beef with horse meat. the appropriate action is to increase the frequency and intensity of checks. in those circumstances, the commission should not submit legislative proposals in this area. i believe that the existing voluntary labelling system is sufficient and that the possibility of introducing such an obligation should be left to the member states. although i am a strong advocate of a culture of conscious food choice, the costs of the proposed changes seem to far outweigh the potential benefits. however, for the avoidance of doubt, i support the rapporteur's call on the european commission to resolve as soon as possible the discrepancies in the results of the study on the price effects of the introduction of this act.
in writing. opponents of the introduction of the indication of the origin of meat argue that this will increase the costs for businesses that produce processed food, which is linked to a number of different costs arising from the need to include and update information on the origin of the meat ingredients in processed products on food labels. research shows that the vast majority of consumers are interested in information about the place of origin and even the 'journey' the meat has taken from the place of farming through the place of slaughter and processing. proponents of labeling argue that the cost will not increase as the studies show. it is worth considering whether the place of origin clause will eliminate the occasional scandal and misuse in the food industry - probably not, but there is a chance that it will reduce them, introduce greater transparency and a sense of security, which is what consumers expect. we also do not know exactly what the 'country of origin' of the meat is. is it the country where the animal was born, or is it the place where it was slaughtered? in conclusion, consumer opinion surveys are insufficient in this respect. the preparation of appropriate solutions before legislative work requires further analysis and research, both on the part of the processing industry and on the part of the consumer.
in writing. the problem of food labelling fraud, exemplified by the recent horse affair, has led to increased consumer awareness and interest in the origin of meat and meat products. therefore, the mandatory indication of the country of origin of meat is a good step towards restoring consumer confidence in the sector and may meet their expectations to choose better labelled products. the obligation to label processed meat applies both to the country of origin of the animals and to the country where the meat was last processed. the obligation applies to all types of meat except beef which is already covered by such a scheme. i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission to put forward its own proposals on this matter.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr goerens. i am convinced that an open, structured dialogue between the european union and the acp states is urgently needed today and that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is the perfect forum for this. i also agree with the rapporteur, mr goerens, who stresses, among other things, the key role of local authorities in the preparation and monitoring of national and regional strategy papers and in the implementation of the european development fund. i believe that regional authorities should be one of the key partners in the drive to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable development. after all, they are the ones who are leading the way in solving local problems, such as food security, social exclusion, infrastructure, rapid urbanization and many others. in my work in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i would like to pay particular attention to this issue.
madam president! we are debating another resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, especially in the context of the islamic state. what does a humanitarian crisis mean in this case? not only the internal forced displacement and emigration of the local population, but the planned brutal murder of christians and other religious minorities in syria and iraq, as we recall in articles 4 and 7 of the resolution prepared by our group of european conservatives and reformists. last september, our house passed a similar resolution, but the problem is only getting worse. we need to act fast and decisively. first, it's blocking the travel of european union volunteers who are supplying the ranks of islamic militants who are committing these terrible murders. second, cutting off the funding to the so-called islamic state, which is not just coming from saudi arabia. in view of the current impotence of the european union's structures in this respect, our parliament should encourage the governments of those member states which have good relations with the sponsors of the so-called islamic state to stop this practice.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in one of the least developed countries in the world, with huge areas of poverty (which indeed had huge prospects for development despite the great influence of terrorism), very drastic reforms have to be carried out with extreme caution. it seems that the abolition of fuel subsidies without the simultaneous immediate social protection was one of the catalysts of the houthi rebellion. it's true that we must unite at this time. it is true that there should be a dialogue under the auspices of the united nations. but we must think about the sensible implementation of the requirements of membership of the world trade organisation and at the moment we must take into account that instead of positive developments we have in yemen a state which represents one of the most serious threats to world security.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm surprised to hear those voices. if you accept the last three votes, you get the impression that europe is a human rights abuser. this is particularly true of the criticism of hungary. i don't share that view at all. i think we should have more confidence in the democratic traditions of the member states. i have a question. what exactly is it that you're asking for? what is your request? what action do you want?
madam president, the minister representing the latvian presidency spoke of the need to coordinate asylum policy. there has been talk of a uniform asylum policy, but this is not just a technical issue, it is a substantive one. we should be ruthless to the criminal world and generous - certainly generous to refugees, to christian refugees and, as far as possible, generous to those who want to come to europe for economic reasons. first, the substantive directions must be defined, and then the technical solutions. commissioner timmermans said that policy in this area must be global. i understand his words that it must be linked to the neighbourhood policy, to the policy towards the south and the east. i'd like to hear specific proposals. finally, i cannot help but refer to the words of my british colleague who spoke in the blue card procedure. am i to understand that the policy of the united kingdom during the communist period, the policy of asylum was easier? well, it was easier, but mature countries should have tough policies.
madam president! the increasing migratory pressure not only on the southern but also on the eastern external border of the european union is increasing the role of frontex, which must meet new challenges. the recent tragic events involving migrants smuggled on cargo ships from turkey to italy and abandoned at sea by smugglers clearly show the need for coordination between member states and for increased support measures. the european commission must also be aware of the seriousness of the situation on the eastern external border of the european union. the war in donbas has already brought an influx of people fleeing war and persecution from eastern ukraine to poland. the european commission must realise that poland, due to the ongoing conflict in ukraine, may at any time need funds and assistance to take in a huge number of migrants from eastern ukraine. i would also like to ask the commissioner what action has the commission taken and what resources has it allocated to deal with the large influx of refugees from ukraine into poland?
madam president! in the light of the tragedies unfolding in the mediterranean, one of the priorities for action should be the urgent development of a new strategy for frontex, including the establishment of a new, more effective framework for cooperation between the border services of the member states and frontex. i address the latvian presidency it has become clear today that there is an urgent need for a stronger and more united commitment by all eu member states, and above all those not affected by migratory pressure in the mediterranean, to frontex operations. at the moment, the contribution in terms of equipment and people is not enough. so instead of focusing on the debate about joint border protection, maybe we should focus more on an integrated approach to joint rescue operations. it should also be remembered that member states are parties to the safety of life at sea (solas) and sar (safety of life at sea) conventions and, in fulfilling their international obligations, cannot expect frontex to handle everything on its own. therefore, it would seem that if the latvian presidency took steps to increase the participation of the member states in frontex's coordination and operational activities in terms of equipment and personnel, it would be a great success. solidarity on security issues, including security in the mediterranean, is particularly needed by the union today.
madam president! our discussion was largely marked by a great deal of chaos. it is only with the speeches of mr karski and mrs kudritska that the situation seems to have settled down a little, and let us not doubt that frontex is an agency that is needed in every way. the fact that it's actually located in warsaw is more of a plus than a minus, which one of the guys here said. first, we need to be very clear about what we mean, because we are talking about different types of immigration (usually forced): political, economic, religious persecution, humanitarian, persecution of minorities of various kinds. and asylum policy the important thing about asylum policy is that we start to conduct it in an integrated way, which means that frontex should have more powers vis-à-vis the member states, because frontex is not an army of soldiers guarding the borders. i think there's another very important humanitarian aspect to asylum policy that we should be looking at. we have states, we have millions of people who are displaced by wars. i would like to make an appeal: perhaps we should prepare such a programme in asylum policy, aimed in particular at young people, and designed for a limited period of time. let's give them the chance to finish school, maybe graduate, with the commitment to return to their own country and there to build and transfer european values. we all need this new impetus from the commission.
madam president! it's no accident that i'm the third pole in a row to speak for the frontex agency or whatever is in our country. it is not by chance that poland is situated there, because poland, along with finland, has the longest external border in the european union. of course, we have to talk about the southern border today, but we also have to talk about the eastern border. in the context of what is happening there, in the context of the war - not formal, but actual - beyond the eastern border of the european union, we have to talk about a very likely large migration (which is already happening) from ukraine. is the european union ready for this? is the european commission prepared to do so? not only in a conceptual, intellectual sense, but also in a financial sense, because even if tomorrow it turns out that this war will be suspended for some time, it will still be the current issue of economic migration. we must be prepared for this as a union.
madam president, firstly frontex and easo need to cooperate closely with third countries and develop dialogues with the countries of origin and transition. easo should strengthen its activities and support the commission and member states by providing necessary assistance. we need one focused and well-coordinated approach to this issue. we need to simplify procedures related to asylum. secondly, easo should further play its role in the collection and exchange of information, as well as developing an early-warning and preparedness system, also using data processing properly. frontex should further focus on enhancing the capacities of the border guard community and on developing capacity-building projects in third countries, but first of all those agencies should have their own sufficient capacities adequately financed by the eu and member states. we need much more european solidarity in that area. thirdly, we are focused on mediterranean countries but, looking to the east, we should be prepared for a possible immigration flow. the situation in ukraine is deteriorating and the number of internally displaced people is nearly one million. that is why both agencies should also be strongly involved in the activities in this area. fourthly – but this is only part of the problem – we need a new framework for a comprehensive european immigration policy responding to real recent and future challenges and we need to define the role of those agencies, or one strong agency, in line with the new policy.
first vice-president of the commission. - mr president, this debate is about the way forward for frontex and the european asylum support office – at least that is what i thought it was, but it has become a debate about much more than that. it has become a debate about what is arguably one of the biggest challenges european societies have faced, and will face, for perhaps a generation. migration is an issue with daunting complexity – all sides of the migration issue – and therefore i would warn against politicians who have very simple, one-dimensional solutions to such a daunting challenge. frontex is not going to solve this; the office is not going to solve this; just building ever-stronger borders is not going to solve this; putting an end to free movement is not going to solve this. if i were a father with children in homs or in damascus and i wanted my children to survive a terrible war and therefore i would try and flee to europe, do you think that, for one second, i would ask myself, ‘is there free movement in europe or is there not?’ no! i would look for a way to save my children, and i think that is completely justified. we would kill the fundamental values we share as europeans if we would deny people the right – if they have to flee – to flee to a safe haven. but that is not the only dimension of this issue. the other dimension is that this is also an economic activity exploited by very dangerous criminals. so you cannot have the naive answer of saying: just let everybody in. just imagine what would happen to our inner cities if we were to have a completely open-door policy in terms of migration. just look what would happen to the fabric of our societies if we were to do that. so there is no room for being naive. this is not a conspiracy of big corporations in a capitalist world to create migration flows. come on, let us not try and sell people this sort of nonsense. this is a consequence of the world as it is today, with many facets. that is why the commission will present a holistic approach to the migration issue, because at the same time europe is struggling with illegal immigration, it is struggling with the need for solidarity between european nations in tackling the issue of illegal migration and asylum seekers. but at the same time, europe will need migration for our economy, for our sciences, for the structure of our societies. europe is in a demographic place where we will have fewer people in europe without immigration over a longer period of time, and our economy will ask for people to come for a while and work here and then go back or not, etc. so we need to have a clever policy that addresses all these issues, and that is why the commission will come up with a holistic migration policy. it is part of our working programme. it is one of our absolute priorities. as part of that, we will have to look at the way forward with frontex and the european asylum support office. these two organisations are part of the solution, but not the only part. frontex needs to be strengthened. i do not think at this stage that the finances are the most acute problem but, if they are, on a year-to-year basis the commission has always made sure that we had enough financing for frontex. i do think that; but if you were to ask me what i am going to do to ensure more solidarity between member states, this, to a large extent, is a matter for discussion between the member states. this is not a competence of the commission or even of the european union. you know, if you have seen the reports of the informal councils, that there is a long and deep debate about this issue. member states by now understand that it is no longer possible to simply say that we should let the countries that are closest to the problem solve it by themselves, because germany alone had more than 200 000 refugees last year. so we all share that problem, and there will only be a collective solution to that problem based on a discussion where the responsibility lies, and that is with the member states. my final remark is this. i think that this august parliament has a huge responsibility in taking back the message to the member states that there is no simple solution to this very complex problem but that there is one thing that is assured: there is no national solution to this problem. there is only a european solution to this problem. those of you who reject european integration: that is fine, that is up to you; but sometimes you give me the impression of being a hammer, and hammers only see nails. this issue is not an issue where you can say that putting an end to free movement will help us to solve the challenge we face with people migrating to europe. they will continue migrating even without freedom of movement, and it will not make our task easier to solve this problem for european citizens. (inaudible comment from a member) i indeed forgot to answer a question, which was completely misdirected at me. if you want to know whether the border between hungary and serbia is patrolled correctly, you should address the hungarian authorities about this. you cannot ask the commission to do that. that is the responsibility of the hungarian authorities.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, thank you for inviting the presidency to take part in your deliberations, and also thank you for the fruitful discussions we had today. once more it has become clear how important it is to talk to each other, and the more we cooperate the more successful we will be in face of the serious challenges that lie ahead. i share the view that the tragic loss of life in the mediterranean is closely linked to the problem of human smuggling and organised crime. the communication on the work of the task force for the mediterranean includes a list of measures to fight these phenomena. we should all continue this work. the union has numerous tools that should be more intensively applied and, where necessary, adapted to new realities. for example, frontex could make use of the common application tools offered by the european border surveillance system (eurosur) to enable selected monitoring of designated pre-frontier areas at the external borders, which have been identified through risk analysis and information as being potential departure or transit areas for illegal immigration or cross-border crime. there is also potential for more intensive inter-agency cooperation – for example, ensuring that europol is made aware swiftly of all information useful in the fight against smugglers that is gathered at the eu borders by member states’ surveillance services. cooperation is also working well under the recently concluded service-level agreement between frontex and the european maritime safety agency. i would also like to mention the actions included in the operational action plan on illegal immigration of the eu policy cycle, which aim to combat criminal groups organising the smuggling of immigrants. the european asylum support office (easo) can cooperate with frontex in relation to reinforced management of the eu’s external borders. easo could coordinate the screening of immigrants in mixed flows by identifying those in need of international protection and those who have special needs, including vulnerable persons; and by providing information, easo could contribute to catering for their needs upon disembarkation. furthermore, enhanced inter-agency cooperation between easo, frontex and europol could be important in the fight against smuggling and in the identification of facilitators. easo could also, for instance, contribute by gathering information on facilitation during the asylum decision process. we might also ask what easo can do in relation to unaccompanied minors. easo already takes action to support member states in the implementation of the common european asylum system in relation to children, including unaccompanied minors. these actions take into account the general work on child protection and the protection of the rights of children carried out inter alia by the commission and the fundamental rights agency. concrete easo deliverables so far include the publication of a report on age assessment and the organisation of a meeting of experts on family tracing. in the coming years, easo should continue to provide support and develop practical cooperation tools on issues relating to children and unaccompanied minors. further to remarks made in the discussion, i have a few points. first, on budget resources: easo and frontex operate within the new multiannual financial framework, including within the bounds of the new asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. for the period 2014-2020 this financial framework provides the basis for eu financial support on asylum, migration and borders, including allocations to eu agencies. as a consequence, any choice to have easo and frontex intensify their existing tasks or taking up new tasks will require either the allocation of additional means to these agencies within the financial framework or prioritisation in the agencies’ work plans. both in the council and in the european parliament, the executive directors of easo and frontex have highlighted the need to match expectations with funds. secondly, at the moment external evaluations of both easo and frontex are being conducted. when ready, the evaluations should provide important input for discussion on the role and tasks of these agencies in the coming years. honourable members, several remarks have been made about the efficiency of the european asylum system. in this regard, i must note that the new legislative instruments of the common european asylum system will come into force this summer. this means that we will first have to assess the impact of these instruments. only then, in the light of the results of that assessment, could the issue of mutual recognition be discussed. we will have to see if sufficient mutual trust exists among member states to introduce a mutually recognised eu protection status. easo could provide important input for that discussion. as co-legislators we will be called on to agree how easo and frontex should further contribute to successful eu migration and asylum policies. today’s debate provides important input for mapping the way forward. in doing so, it is our common responsibility to match means and expectations and to continue giving both agencies our full support.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. europe, as a region of relative prosperity, is a place where many people would like to be. they are fleeing countries ravaged by armed conflict or ethnic strife, countries mired in poverty with no prospect of change for the better. the creation of institutions such as frontex and the european asylum support office was intended to coordinate efforts to limit the influx of migrants and to create the conditions to deal with those who had already arrived in europe. however, it is an undeniable fact that the member states bear a large share of the responsibility for the security of their borders. the countries on the eu's southern and eastern borders are particularly hard-pressed to cope with the refugee problem. the doubling of the number of immigrants in the last two years is also worrying. this is the result of the escalation of the armed conflict and terrorism in syria and iraq. the eu is also working to strengthen its capacity to respond to the crisis in ukraine, and to strengthen its capacity to respond to the crisis in the region. financial support should be provided to enable these institutions to fulfil their tasks and to support member states in receiving refugees.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on access to medicines in the eu (2015/2528 ((rsp)).
mr president, the nannies ruling the european union are treating europeans like small children. i would like to inform mrs kalniņa-lukaševica that we are already grown up, and every european should be allowed to buy in every pharmacy any medicine he wants – whether the government wants it or not – provided the pharmacy wants to sell it to him. if mrs kalniņa-lukaševica maintains that she knows better than me what is good for me, that is not even fascist, it is much worse. it is socialist. moreover, i think that the european union must be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i wanted to express my surprise at the statements made by the commissioner and the council representative, because they were beautiful words, but unfortunately they did not lead to anything. because they didn't make any suggestions about how patients could access their medication. it's hard to talk about this problem, and i'll say this: i think it's a mission impossible, if we're talking about 26 health care systems in europe. each of these systems is regulated by national legislation. what, the price of the drug is the same everywhere and yet it's low? i find it difficult to talk about. however, some 25-30% of patients in some european countries do not have access to any medicines because they do not buy them from the pharmacy for the simple reason of a financial barrier. the expenditure in europe is different, so there are countries like this - maybe some of my colleagues don't know this, that's why i'm talking about this. what's the problem today? the problem is that when we talk about access to medicines, especially in terms of innovation and generics, especially in terms of price, and we don't talk about harmonizing health care systems, we're really not talking about anything. my question is a little bit difficult because we've heard a lot of different opinions here: is the council, is the commission even capable of taking on the challenge of obamacare? could we try to harmonize health care systems across europe? if that were possible, then we could talk about the availability of medicines, because the cost of medicines is only 15 to 17 percent of the total cost of health care. so without solving this issue, it's going to be hard to solve any problem. the question is: are the commission and the council able to take up this challenge facing the europeans?
mr. chairman, please! the market for medicines and their availability is one of the essential elements of the health of the citizens of the european union. in an age of ageing societies and of many civilization and chronic diseases, the pharmaceutical sector and its regulation are becoming increasingly important for the health of european citizens, for whom the priority is to ensure access to innovative, safe, effective and affordable medicines. many estimates based on demographic data suggest that both the amount of drug expenditure and the number of drugs taken by patients will increase in the coming years. we should pay particular attention to the activities of pharmaceutical companies and their behaviour on the markets of the european union countries. often the same medicine with the same composition is offered at different prices depending on the pharmaceutical market in the member state concerned and this is normal, but unfortunately this situation results in, for example, wholesale purchase of a given medicine in one country and its sale in another, which results in the removal of the possibility of treating patients with this medicine on the local market and a real risk to the health and life of patients. that's the situation we've had in poland lately. such practices should be eliminated without any doubt. the systems for the marketing authorisation and co-financing of medicinal products by the member states should be considered, as they are sometimes unclear and questionable. we should do everything we can to ensure that patients have equal access to innovative procedures and medicines that effectively save lives and health. better access, including affordability, combined with adequate education and prevention to prevent and control the spread of disease will reduce the incidence of disease and will certainly result in better health and quality of life for the population. i also agree with those who have said that the dreams you mentioned are rather difficult to achieve. a common market for medicines, with different health systems and with the member states having the ultimate responsibility, seems to be a dream that europeans are longing for, but one that is probably difficult to achieve.
mr. chairman, please! health care is a clear requirement for the common good. this is something that every government, every public institution has to take care of, but in the current crisis of european culture, it is sometimes used as a pretext for actions that have nothing to do with protecting life or health. this is the case, for example, with the promotion of products which have an abortive effect at the earliest embryonic stage of life, when they prevent the embryo from nesting in the mother's uterus. a month ago, the european commission issued a decision exempting ellaone from prescription requirements, which may have, albeit secondarily, exactly this effect. we await the commission's answer to the question why there has been such an escalation of actions that disregard life at its most sensitive, most delicate moment, and above all we appeal to the commission to respect the lives of the most vulnerable, of this most vulnerable minority because it is completely silent.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! among the many different types of cybercrime, the one that happens with child sexual abuse is terribly outrageous. it is therefore important that the european parliament has today taken up the debate on this subject, although the time allotted for it is embarrassingly short. this is our response to the report that europol published. a report that describes the rise of this type of cybercrime. it also shows how little progress has been made in combating such crimes. what's that from? anyone who has read this report understands perfectly well the direction in which this type of crime is developing today. you can book sessions online, live, from countries all over the world, sitting somewhere in the privacy of your room. and a disgusting criminal like you, paying through the cayman islands or some other island where there's no financial control, gets this kind of disgusting sexual service. this shows that there is a need for greater harmonisation of the rules to combat this type of cybercrime, to increase the effectiveness of cooperation between law enforcement authorities and those authorities in the member states and in third countries cooperating with them to counter this type of crime. it's not just about fighting it directly, of course, by banning it, but it's also about education. it's important, and i'm glad we're gonna have a resolution because i can't imagine... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. it is estimated that there are 4 million images and videos of child pornography circulating on the internet. over 70% of the cases involve children under the age of ten, and 10% involve children under two! it's just a fragment of this pathological reality. it is still very difficult to determine the exact number of children who are abused by adults online. anonymity, which is one of the great benefits of the internet, is in this context its curse. the arguments about freedom of speech and the right to privacy are no longer relevant. today's debate is a reminder that the digital age also creates new opportunities for pedophiles. given the global reach of the internet, the eu's response to their crimes must be to cooperate more closely with its strategic partners around the world. it is therefore fitting that a global alliance be formed to combat child sexual abuse online. joint action will certainly improve the effectiveness of identification and assistance to victims. improving the investigation and prosecution of cybercriminals and raising awareness of the risks among parents and children, as well as removing illegal content, will also be key. we must do everything we can to protect the youngest participants in virtual reality. children need our united voice, committed to protecting their childhood.
in writing. the internet has undoubtedly revolutionized our daily lives. for most of us, it has become our primary source of information, education, employment, and entertainment. but like any tool, it can be used in the wrong way. there is no doubt that child sexual abuse is the most heinous form of violence. the current unrestricted access to electronic media means that more and more minors using these technologies are exposed to harmful content. we must not forget that technology is not static and changes very rapidly. finding the balance between a free internet and fighting illegal content online is not easy. however, in the interests of the youngest eu citizens, it is our duty to create effective law that responds to the challenges of the digital age. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to revise the audiovisual media services directive. unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet. the commission should prepare such an amendment and ensure that member states implement the 2011 child sexual exploitation directive as soon as possible. additional resources should also be found to educate both children and adults in this area.
- mr president! - i'm not going to do that. i was a journalist for years, and it's a matter of professional solidarity, but it's also a matter of a basic sense of justice that i'm speaking today, because it's really our duty to defend people in situations that are like black and white film, because it's really a situation where the authorities persecute someone who is fulfilling his mission, journalistic mission, professional mission, it's a scandalous situation, and there were three sisters murdered. this journalist did his duty, refused to give his source, and so he behaved a bit like a priest at confession, who also refuses to give anyone information about what was said to him during confession. i think it is good that the european parliament is taking a strong stand on this.
mr. chairman, please! bob rugurika, the director of burundi's public radio, was arrested after he published a series of investigative reports into the murder of three italian nuns. the burundian authorities have once again harassed and persecuted journalists and activists in an attempt to stop the media from reporting and publishing inside information about government abuses. we have already discussed the case of dr. pierre clavera mbonimpa in the same room. the burundian government has committed itself to respect the cotonou agreement on human rights, including freedom of expression, and the international covenant on civil and political rights, which explicitly states that provisional detention should be based on credible, legally substantiated charges. i therefore strongly condemn the unlawful detention of bob ruguriki and call for his immediate and unconditional release. respect for the rights of burundi is a key condition for the holding of transparent and fair elections in the country in 2015.
mr. chairman, please! as a result of the internal fighting in the 1960s and the turkish invasion of cyprus, some two thousand people of greek and turkish origin were reported missing. their fate is still being determined by the cyprus committee for missing persons. in 1974, the turkish army murdered nearly 100 civilians in the area of ashia. the european court of human rights has held turkey responsible for these killings. the greek cypriots are clamoring for turkey to be held accountable. turkey refuses to cooperate and prevents access to sites where the remains of missing persons may be hidden. ladies and gentlemen of the house! we must openly appeal for more action to those who can help the cypriots to resolve this tragic conflict. there are still relatives of the missing and murdered who are waiting to bury the remains of their loved ones. let the courts and tribunals of war decide the guilt. let us demand that both sides in this conflict be granted the right to seek . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. despite the fact that five years have passed since the macabre discovery by the committee on missing persons in cyprus near the village of ashai, where 70 people disappeared under unclear circumstances thirty years ago, too many questions remain unanswered. the traces found, which indicate the exhumation and transfer of body parts, are clear evidence that turkey is not only failing to fulfil its obligation to conduct a thorough investigation into this case, but is also seeking to avoid responsibility for the killings of the population in 1974. the values we hold dear require us to take decisive action to force the turkish side to come to terms with its past. it is our duty to do everything possible to ensure that this blank page in the history of the turkish-cypriot conflict is finally written. there can be no tolerance for actions that seek to conceal the truth. in these difficult times, with so many armed conflicts, may this resolution be a signal not only to turkey but to the whole world that the european union is opposed to any practice aimed at covering up crimes committed against the civilian population. let's send a clear signal that we don't agree to let those responsible for the death of innocent people escape accountability. let us show that we value life, dignity and truth above all else.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is facing a historic moment. this is the moment when it can create a real and solid energy policy, based not on guarantees and promises but on the creation of legal solutions guaranteeing the sovereignty of countries cooperating with each other to ensure energy security. this cooperation should consist in investing as soon as possible in infrastructure to diversify the supply of energy resources and in the development of domestic conventional and non-conventional energy sources. these actions are conditional on the threat from the east. the union must also speak with one voice in this area, with the security of the member states in mind. the commission's present proposal is deeply disappointing. the assumptions presented are facade-like and do not correspond in any way to the present or future economic and political situation of the european continent. i therefore call on the commission and the council to build a real energy union that meets the challenges of the future and is the foundation of the energy security of the member states. i would like to call in particular on the president of the council, donald tusk, who, when he was running for office, promised to make every effort to achieve the energy union. he promised a gas solidarity mechanism, joint energy purchases, coal rehabilitation and a radical diversification of energy supply sources, including a new gas policy. now is the time to make those promises come true.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his strategic proposals and strategic document. we have changed trains today from the european energy community to the energy union. that is very good. the purpose has not changed: secure, sustainable and affordable energy for our citizens and businesses. we have the same principles and tools, like european law and funding. what is new, now and for the future? political will. it has not always been there. let me stress three key points of the proposal which i admire very much. firstly, close coordination of purchases to have stronger standing relations with external suppliers, ex ante, not only ex post. secondly, we need to expand the energy union to the neighbourhood countries of the energy community and observers, such as turkey. thirdly, we need efficient governance of the energy union. as you know very well, parliament has always expressed its strong support for a more integrated energy policy. we, in this parliament, should play an important role in the creation of the energy union and we are ready for such a responsibility. without the energy union, it will not be possible to achieve competitiveness, economic growth and the creation of jobs in the eu. our citizens will not feel secure from the fear that energy, as a political weapon, will be in use in the years to come. so let us create the energy union.
mr. chairman, please! when donald tusk initiated the debate on the energy union, he proposed joint purchases of gas from russia and the rehabilitation of coal. the commission's proposal has been replaced by a joint gas purchase, and you have replaced coal rehabilitation with decarbonisation. the project thus infringes a fundamental principle of the european union, namely the principle of solidarity. you want to divide the eu countries into winners and losers, and the losers are going to include my country, poland, which is already paying the most in the european union for russian gas; a country that you are pushing onto the decarbonisation path and which will be forced to buy expensive technologies from the rich countries of the european union. we're not gonna give you permission to do that. i see no reason to support the energy union in this form. such a project will deepen the gap in economic development between rich and poor countries. let us build the energy union on the principles of equity and solidarity, not on a pact between the rich and the rich at the expense of the poor.
mr. chairman, please! the country i represent has been convinced for many years of the need for an energy union. the strategy for this union is being presented at a particularly sensitive time. one of the things we hoped to do was go shopping together. we know this is not an easy thing to do. not everyone agrees with that. i think there's one thing that's beyond doubt. first, energy security is not only an economic but also a political issue. it was particularly highlighted during the ukrainian-russian conflict. secondly, the development of technical infrastructure is a prerequisite for the security and continuity of supply, including, of course, the inter-system pipelines, the whole investment programme, the lng terminals being built by the member states, the new transmission networks, but also the connections with other sources of supply. and of course, the rehabilitation of our own energy sources, which are the lowest risk, as our own resources. no energy source should be discriminated against, we should not discriminate against different technologies of extraction, processing, from oil, gas, coal, to renewable energy sources, if they improve energy security and do not cause environmental risks.
in writing. the current energy governance process in the eu is bad and chaotic, dominated by the climate priority. this unilateral approach is damaging the energy security of some eu countries, including poland, and is also threatening them with energy poverty. energy policy needs to be reassessed and the excessive, poorly documented european climate policy needs to be separated from the real energy policy. the lobbying of current climate and energy policy is driven by the economic interests of some member states and the large multinational gas and financial corporations fighting against coal. the energy union should lead to a revision of the current climate and energy package, which in its current form creates unfair economic competition between member states. energy security, the fight against poverty, solidarity and transparency in the negotiation of gas and other energy prices purchased in third countries, and the promotion of the use of local energy sources, including coal, should be priorities for the energy union. decarbonization should be based on energy efficiency gains in conversion processes and final efficiency, rather than on administratively imposed reduction rates and a dysfunctional eu ets.
in writing. i believe that the energy union project announced today by the european commission is one of the milestones on the road to european integration. particularly in the current geopolitical situation, enhancing energy security and diversifying energy sources and supplies are of fundamental importance. the situation of up to 6 member states being fully dependent on one supplier for gas and up to 12 member states not meeting the minimum interconnection requirements is worrying and requires decisive action. i am therefore pleased that the european commission has taken a favourable view of shale gas extraction in its energy union project. i also think it is important to announce the development of a strategy for the purchase of lng. we still have a lot of work to do to integrate the 28 energy markets into one energy union. the full determination of the european parliament, the european commission and the council is therefore needed to achieve this objective as soon as possible.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the events in ukraine, syria and libya have highlighted the problem of the union's energy security. the risks posed by the fact that member states buy most of their energy from external suppliers have been pointed out for years, but little has been done to eliminate them. it is therefore to be commended that the new european commission has embarked so quickly on the construction of an energy union within the european union. i am pleased that in preparing its plan, it has taken up the concept presented last year by the current president of the european council, donald tusk. i would like to draw attention to two important points. first, the commission is only now considering the options for joint purchases of energy raw materials. given that such a solution would only be available during the energy crisis on a voluntary basis for companies dependent on a single supplier and additionally controlled for compliance with wto rules, i do not understand why such a solution has not already been proposed. secondly, one of the pillars of the energy union, decarbonising the eu's energy mix, cannot mean fighting coal, but only fighting greenhouse gas emissions. we must remember that some member states will continue to base their energy policy on their own coal resources for some time to come. the measures to eliminate this raw material will lead to the collapse of their economies and thus bring further economic problems to the union.
in writing. regarding the basic requirement of joint gas purchases, the commission communication states that the european commission will assess options for voluntary demand aggregation for joint gas purchases in times of crisis for single supplier countries. voluntary joint gas purchases are already allowed in the eu, so the commission's proposal is nothing new. in the area of transport infrastructure development, we are basically seeing a repetition of the existing eu mechanisms to support this type of investment and vague proposals for the creation of the so-called southern gas corridor, which is particularly worrying after the eu abandoned the nabucco project. as regards the support for the use of own energy resources, the communication mentions such support, but only for renewable energy, whereas poland refers to coal and shale gas. most of the communication is about climate policy, and it's a watered-down version. the ambitious climate policy of deep decarbonisation of the economies of individual eu countries, pushing renewable energy much more expensive than conventional energy, are the main strategic intentions of the eu as set out in the communication. unfortunately, the implementation of these proposals will directly impact the polish economy and society, increasing our dependence on imported gas, but also significantly raising the prices of electricity and heat. the commission's proposal for a european energy union is strongly opposed by the polish members of the ecr group.
in writing. the role of the european parliament must be to motivate the council, the commission and the member states to take wider action to promote national and union-wide energy security, which may be influenced by, inter alia, the establishment of a common gas market and the implementation of infrastructure projects to link national transmission networks (construction of interconnecting pipelines) in order to respond effectively to, for example, sudden disruptions in national supply. this is why the priority of european commission president jean-claude juncker to reform and reorganise european energy policy by combining european resources, infrastructure and european negotiating power in talks with third countries to diversify energy sources and reduce energy dependence of eu member states is so important and worth supporting that, for whatever reasons, commercial or political, europe is able to change its supply channels quickly.
in writing. the energy union aims to ensure security, resilience to potential supply problems and decision-making about the flow of energy. reliable, sustainable and competitive energy is a topic that no eu country can currently tackle fully autonomously. to meet today's challenges, the european union needs an integrated energy policy. dependence on a single energy supplier is not a stable and secure solution, for example due to the current political circumstances. the creation of an energy union would provide self-sufficiency, security, lower energy costs and improved energy efficiency. the energy union can become a tool to protect key sectors of the economy. it can be an opportunity for economic growth, competitiveness or improvement in the labour market. investment in energy infrastructure, conventional and non-conventional energy sources and energy efficiency are certainly important issues. a common internal energy market with a high-quality infrastructure would be an opportunity for mutual assistance between member states, guaranteeing a constant supply to all customers.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, just two weeks have elapsed since the last informal council and it seems that it was ages ago; the time has so much accelerated. the council was meant to be initially on terrorism, but life added two more topics: the greek crisis and ukraine under attack. what do those three cases have in common? they are three tests for our european values. the first, on the charlie incident: freedom of expression, terrorism and security of citizens. we did deliver a consistent plan of action, as was reported by president tusk. on the second, greece: we stood up to the principle of binding commitments of member states, pacta sunt servanda: the same rules for all on fiscal responsibility. but at the same time we have merged responsibility with solidarity with greece – and we really did deliver on greece, as it appears today, president juncker. on the third case, ukraine: it also tests our values. it joins the features of the two previous cases: charlie and terrorism, and greece. it is about terrorism and it is about economic collapse. the ukraine case is about changing borders by force and violating national law through state-sponsored terrorism by russia and by waging war. will the eu stay the course, to quote president tusk, of a value-based foreign policy? shall we be faithful to our principle ‘more sanctions in response to more war’? we are giving a chance to diplomacy through the minsk agreements, but we should support it with proper leverage and pressure, by imposing an economic cost on the aggressor, by allowing the victim to defend itself against the aggressor, and by supporting its defence capabilities according to two principles of international law: first, the right to defend; second: the responsibility to protect. for all that we need strength and unity.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i had a dream – actually it was a dream about the european union of my hopes and expectations, the european union of several years ago. it would probably have been, first, the exchange of views with the president of a victim country, then discussions among the eu leaders, adoption of the negotiating mandate and empowering by the treaty authorities of the european union to negotiate if it was decided to negotiate. what do we have instead? the normandy format, whatever that means. lack of participation by both the high representatives, the president of the council and the president of the commission. and we have the result, and our cautious support and the support without reservations during the g7 debate. certainly we have a huge problem: not only conflict, we have a real war, breach of international law, annexation of a sovereign country and our lack of decision. we must know that the russian federation has not fulfilled any agreement reached in respect of ukraine, yet, during the informal council, we decided not to discuss further sanctions and it means that minsk too is just freezing this conflict. we have to go further and we have to adopt further firm, decisive decisions that empower the eu. i really appreciate the outcome of the informal council in terms of anti-terrorist measures, including the prospects for the pnr directive: it is very important. we have been engaged within my political group in discussing this matter. on greece, there are two sides to this problem. certainly we have to be very clear in our discussions with the people of europe about the consequences of monetary union. but we also have to remember that acceptance of greece was a political decision, as is the monetary union itself, and we cannot pretend that it is only a question of economic considerations now.
in writing. looking at the part of the report devoted to the fight against terrorism and the role of the pnr in combating this phenomenon, i believe that it is only one of the means, not a panacea, for the plague that europe and the world are fighting. our absolute priority must be to ensure the safety of our citizens and to protect the values we hold dear. the recent terrorist attacks in paris were aimed at the very values and human rights that underpin the european union - solidarity, freedom, including freedom of expression, pluralism, democracy, tolerance and human dignity. close cooperation between member states and with our international partners is essential to combating terrorism effectively. all citizens have the right to live free from fear, regardless of their views or beliefs. but europe needs more than a common strategy to combat terrorism. we need a policy of prevention to prevent radicalisation and a common immigration policy. currently, non-eu residents account for over 4% of the total community population. this number is constantly increasing with the merger of immigrant families and the births of new children. this means that immigrants will make up a growing proportion of the eu population, whether we like it or not. you have to realize that stopping immigration is not possible, but normalizing it is. this must be done through a coherent eu strategy on immigration.
in writing. the ceasefire and truce negotiated in minsk should not please anyone but vladimir putin, as this truce is his tactical victory. there is no doubt that it was negotiated under his dictation and the ukrainian authorities were put up against the wall. in reality, the agreement does little to change the situation, since it is notoriously broken. the place and format of the negotiations agreed by the union reveal its weakness and helplessness in the face of the war on its borders. it is hard to believe that such important talks could have taken place without the participation of the president of the european council or the high representative for foreign affairs of the country of the dictator, whom the european parliament criticises in every resolution. i would like to remind you that the european union is made up of 28 countries, and that is why the talks in the normandy format without the countries of central and eastern europe are unacceptable. the eu representatives, led by president tusk, should be ashamed of themselves for giving in so easily to putin's pressure. in the face of war, it is decisive action that is required, not empty talk.
mr. chairman, please! the future of the european union is not, unfortunately, looking very optimistic or impressive. it is important to note that economic activity and growth are still very low and, worse, are continuing to decline. this is compounded by a frighteningly low inflation rate, which could prove fatal to the european economy. we're facing falling prices, lack of economic momentum, rising unemployment, which could end up in a bigger crisis. i am also concerned about the situation of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which employs over 70% of the workforce in europe. if there is no access to finance in this sector, it will increase the problem of achieving economic recovery, which is such a big risk for us in the current situation. i therefore call on the european central bank to look specifically at this sector. and i am not talking about new regulations for smes, but rather about relaxing the regulations already in force. my question also concerns the possibility of economic stimulus other than the purchase of bonds (de facto a one-trillion euro increase). will the current solution, in the form of such a large financial injection, prove to be too short-lived and short-sighted? the other issue i would like to highlight is the guarantee of the independence of the european central bank, which can only be achieved by properly separating its banking function from its role in financial supervision.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer to the words of mr draghi. i welcome the three points he mentioned, namely monetary policy, transparency and progress in steering a deeper european union. i think that this initiative that we are starting, this offensive since march of this year, is a bit modeled on the american model, and in supporting it, i would just like to ask that we all start looking at where there might be some danger, where we might fund ourselves - possibly against our will - in some kind of speculative bubble or fall into a crisis. the situation at the beginning of enthusiasm may be favorable. for the first time in a long time, i've heard a banker say that he expects a response and will be watching the economy's response to monetary policy. until now, it's been the other way around. it was thought that the economy would adjust to monetary policy. we should welcome this with great pleasure. there is, of course, the important issue that has been discussed here: smes. there are over 20 million of them, as many as the unemployed; each enterprise will add one person to the workforce. the only question is, what are these companies going to produce? more bread? cutting people's hair more often? so there's a question of the shape, the model of our economy. the innovation we talked about, the export, the competitiveness, that's important. the investments that vice-president dombrovskis mentioned and the economic recovery are very limited in scope, because we can only pour a limited amount of concrete into the construction of motorways, railways and airports, but the question is who will benefit from this, where will industrial development take place? and that industrialization is the essence of the issue that we should be concerned about. i believe that the european central bank and the juncker plan can work together.
mr. chairman, please! unlike the last speakers, i would like to express my appreciation to the european central bank. the bank's policies have prevented a very serious crisis in the last two years. it has averted the threat of a eurozone break-up, stabilised financial markets and restored confidence in them. it is thanks to mario draghi's famous words that he would do whatever it takes to save the euro that we have achieved something that the heads of government and the presidents of the member states have failed to achieve for two years. and mario draghi has achieved this without spending a single euro. i would like to say, while congratulating you on this achievement, that the euro area is still in a difficult situation. the investment rate fell more than expected, and the savings rate increased. normally, in such a situation, a fall in the real interest rate should bring saving and investment into balance at a level that ensures full employment. unfortunately, we now have interest rates near zero and savings are still greater than investment. this situation has led some economists to suggest that we are dealing with a secular stagnation in europe. i would like to ask the representatives of the european central bank in this context whether they agree with the thesis that we are in danger of secular stagnation, i.e. a situation in which there is no positive interest rate that will lead to a balance between investment and savings? if so, does the european central bank know how to combat this phenomenon? finally, a somewhat provocative question: is the european central bank considering helicopter money?
mr. chairman, please! economic activity in the european union, including the euro area, continues to slow. and with that comes high unemployment. moreover, the lack of capital and financing is having a negative impact on the economy not only in the euro area. it limits the ability of companies to compete and grow. the ecb should carefully examine the causes and consequences of lack of access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. the lack of credit for them in some member states is one of the main factors holding back economic recovery. and yet smes employ over 70% of the workforce. and that's why they should be at the heart of our policies. access to finance and stimulation of investment can be primarily the result of adequate structural reforms by governments at the national level. i would also like to call on the ecb to conduct its policies in a way that is responsive to the needs of the real economy, especially in its approach to small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are at the heart of our european economy.
i'm closing the debate. draft resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 march 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say something about kosovo. well, we've been seeing a new wave of immigration from kosovo into the european union, especially into germany. they're talking about 100,000 people. of course, as always, it triggers a defensive response. there are voices that say that regulations should be put in place to limit this influx. it is not accompanied by reflection on the reasons for this exodus. it is frustrating that in this parliament we are dealing with all the world's ills, such as venezuela today, advising others on how to organise their economic and political life, and we are unable to solve europe's problems alone. in fact, not only are we not able to help effectively so far such large countries as ukraine, but even such small ones as kosovo. despite the two billion euros that have been transferred to kosovo from the union since 1999, despite eulex, despite the close monitoring of the country, the situation in kosovo is dire. in a 2013 business insider poverty index, kosovo was ranked among the 25 worst countries in the world, along with afghanistan, mali and south sudan. it's hardly surprising that people are thinking of leaving the country. so instead of debating the misery of the world, let's take care of our own backyard, and then the world will appreciate our successes and our values, and follow our lead.
mr. chairman, please! the nato centre of excellence in riga has prepared a report describing the propaganda activities of the russian federation prior to and during the aggression against ukraine. the report shows how the free world has been misinformed about what is happening in ukraine. it is also important how the european union and democratic countries provide a forum for representatives of the russian federation. invitations to vladimir putin in brisbane, sergei lavrov in munich and alexei pushkov to the european parliament's foreign affairs committee may unknowingly be putting us in the propaganda business of the russian federation, lending credibility to the leaders of that country. it is essential that we recognize russia as a state that is conducting aggressive actions against another sovereign state and avoid supporting its actions.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to speak on the european citizens' initiative the new political right of citizens of the european union established by the lisbon treaty and more specifically to talk about how it is applied, because unfortunately there is a huge gap between the declarations of the treaty and the practice. the largest citizens' initiative, one of us, supported by nearly 2 million european union citizens, calling for legal action to protect the life of the unborn, has been virtually rejected by the commission under mr barroso. commissioner timmermans says that the initiative should not be treated as a legal one, that he will conduct a political dialogue, but we do not know the form. tomorrow, there will be a public hearing on the european citizens' initiative. i would like to do everything, and i appeal to my colleagues, to make sure that the citizens' initiative is a real law and not a dead law.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
the question asked by raising the blue card. the mep spoke about stereotypes, about the need to fight stereotypes. i was going to ask you, what are the stereotypes? is this about family rights, or is family a stereotype in your mind? and what tools do you propose to use in this fight? i admit that i ask this with some trepidation, because whenever such general terms are used, human freedom and family rights are threatened.
madam president! the report contains many elements with which i cannot agree at all and which are contrary to the values of millions of europeans. the first objection is to the promotion of abortion. abortion is wrong and cannot be treated as a woman's basic right. our task should be to empower women, including by promoting parenthood, motherhood and providing pro-family policies that support motherhood and parenthood. secondly, i call on the european union countries not to ratify this harmful, ideological istanbul convention, because this convention does not solve the problems of violence, but introduces a socio-cultural concept of gender, obliges the states to fight stereotypes, and recognizes the role of women as mothers, men as fathers as a stereotypical role. he also points to tradition, family, and religion as sources of violence. the real sources of violence are alcoholism, drug abuse, increasing violence and the sexualization of women's image, among others. unfortunately, these issues are completely ignored by the convention. so, under the guise of fighting violence, new ideological content is being introduced that reconciles what is valuable in our culture and civilization with its christian roots. it's a pity you forget that. read the convention, then you'll know what we're talking about. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. how do i see the role of men? ma'am, i'm a conservative, traditionalist, and i'm not a religious person. my husband cleans the house, my husband cooks, just like me. and we have absolutely no problem or any problem with that. we split the roles: when one of us has time, he does the housework. i have the impression that you have not read the istanbul convention and you are repeating some stereotypes about the convention. if you think that religion, culture, family is the source of violence, then i think that's a somewhat distorted view of reality.
the question is asked by raising the blue card. first, i would like to ask you how you understand, understand and define the socio-cultural notion of gender? second, do you think that the early sexualization of young children is a sensible thing to do? how do you define the sources of violence against women? do you agree with the convention that violence against women is rooted in family, religion and tradition?
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. - i'm not going to the police. i'd like to ask you, because you said that women earn less, have smaller pensions, of course it's true. you point to the periods of time when women are focused on their motherhood as a source of discrimination. do you not therefore believe that the lack of a proper family policy in the member states is the source of discrimination against women?
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honourable member! i want to ask about the part of the resolution that deals with education. as far as i know, in both your country and mine, education is a matter for the member states. it is part of the constitutional identity of germany and poland. do you not fear that this resolution is completely contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and interferes with the sphere reserved by a member state, both in poland and in germany?
comments from the court
mr. chairman, please! it is very good that we are talking every year about the extent to which we are able to implement the provisions of the european treaty on equality between women and men. today, there was talk that quotas are a humiliation for women. i think it's much more humiliating to have a 39 percent pension gap in europe. it is a disgrace to every member state and it is clear that we must do something about it. the pension gap accumulates inequalities from the labour market over a lifetime and shows an unequal, asymmetric distribution of roles in households. so it's clear that gender mainstreaming needs to be implemented not just by the ministry of labour, but also by the ministry of justice, the ministry of infrastructure and the ministry of education, and ultimately it needs to be taken seriously if we are to overcome these compromising inequalities in europe.
mr. chairman, please! all fair-minded people are fighting against discrimination against women, but this report is not about discrimination against women, it is not about properly compensating women who have devoted themselves entirely to work at home to have the same pensions, good pension rights. it's about social engineering, it's about a society without a mom and a dad. it's about a society where mom and dad are replaced by individuals without an identity, it's about ideological fixation. and it's also about attacking the right of the human person to life, which has been the foundation of legal civilization since the days of rome. i thank the many members, including those outside my club, the members of the european people's party, for speaking up in defence of the civilization of life. finally, it is a report which deprives the member states of the right to act where they have the right to act. and that's not an alibi, that's a subsidiarity principle that must be respected.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 march 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. a work-life balance is essential to avoid increasing the poverty of families. in the area of childcare, there is a need to integrate national and local authorities to ensure the care and education of pre-school children. the priority is to establish parental leave so that men can take advantage of it. statistics show that women earn about 15% less than men in equivalent jobs. in national parliaments, around 70% of the seats are held by men, and in the boards of large companies, more than 80%. the crisis is affecting the employment of women, who are mostly employed in low-paid public services. over 90% of single parents are women who are not working or part-time, which reduces their material status and family living standards. women's pensions are about 40% lower than men's, and 1/3 of women in europe do not receive a pension at all! violence against women and family is a serious problem. women's access to sexual and reproductive health services is also limited. in conclusion, gender equality issues need to be integrated into policy-making processes to make more effective use of eu funds. the most urgent need is to enforce directive 2006/54/ec and the objectives of the europa 2020 strategy in order to combat stereotypes and vertical and horizontal segregation.
in writing.– one of the conditions for effective eu policy is that the union and the member states determine rules and conditions under which services of general economic interest for promoting social and territorial cohesion will function. parliament and the council establish those rules and specify conditions while taking care not to impinge upon the competences of the member states. matters of conscience certainly belong to those competences. the report by marc tarabella on ʽprogress on equality between women and men in the eu in 2013ʼ is not controversial. on the contrary, it elicited positive opinions. points 44 and 45 are therefore surprising in this context. the inclusion in the report of these two points, which do not have any value, can only be a politically-motivated manoeuvre: it devalues the essence of the document and diverts the course of the discussion. the vital points of substance that it raises are obscured by what should be matters of conscience. the european unionʼs motto is ʽunity in diversityʼ. this means that to provide peace and prosperity, as well as preserve the wealth of cultures, traditions and languages in europe, europeans should act together. is the trap concealed in this report truly in the spirit of this idea?
the next item is the report by mr morton messerschmidt, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on eu competition policy (2014/2158 ((ini)) (a8-0019/2015).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to begin by congratulating mr messerschmidt on the very good report he has produced. competitiveness is an essential element of europe's economic development. this is of fundamental importance in relation to energy prices affecting the economic development of the union. we are very far behind the competition in this area, and above all in energy prices compared to the united states. electricity in europe is on average twice as expensive as in the usa. the price of gas, on the other hand, has increased by 2.5 times the us price. but there are countries in the european union - my country, poland, for example - where the price of gas is five times the price in the united states. it is the main brake on economic growth, deepening europe's economic crisis. the union's approach to climate policy is not optimistic, being treated as an ideology, leaving little room for competition. without a change in the current policy, there can be no talk of european union competitiveness.
madam president! competition policy is undoubtedly one of the foundations of the single market in the european union. without action at community level, we would be constantly confronted with restrictive practices and even trade wars between member states. this would not only affect consumers but also the european economy as a whole, and the new commission's statement on this matter should therefore be welcomed. we must remember that companies will use all the means at their disposal to strengthen their position on the market. however, the past year has highlighted the problem of tax havens, including in particular the fiscal policies pursued by some member states. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any specific tax treatment for luxopco. if you look at the list of companies that took advantage of the opportunities offered by luxembourg, you can see that they were companies that brought in hundreds of millions of euros in profit. the offer made by that state therefore represented a real tax loss for a number of member states. i agree with the rapporteur that transparency of tax law is an essential element of competitiveness and that the european commission should be equipped with instruments to identify unfair practices. i also wanted to draw attention to the distortion of competition in the single market which i had missed in the report. in recent days, there has been information about huge variations in the price of russian gas between member states. we have to realize that there is no fair competition between companies if some pay $308 for 1,000 cubic meters of gas and others pay 26% more. it should be noted that this price is not based on any objective prerequisites, but is merely a consequence of the political will of the kremlin. i am therefore surprised that the members who are talking about so-called social dumping have not raised the issue of energy dumping in the recent debate on the energy union.
in writing. competition policy is of key importance to the eu as a whole and therefore to all its citizens. it has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare and is an essential tool for removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. competition policy plays a strategic role in strengthening the comprehensive approach to the single market to address the economic, social and environmental challenges facing europe today. competition policy instruments should be used in such a way as to contribute to growth and job creation. effective monitoring of the behaviour of parent companies and rapid reaction to infringements is of particular importance. therefore, the rules on anti-trust, state aid and merger control should be strengthened with a view to achieving a well-functioning internal market and social progress. bearing in mind that actions to promote the eu's competitiveness must always be carried out in the public interest. through an effective competition policy, we can strengthen and increase the eu's international standing. however, it should not be forgotten that in the era of globalisation, international cooperation and the promotion of an innovative culture of competition on a global scale are essential for the effective application of competition law principles.
mr. chairman, please! i rarely do this, but i wanted to express my full support and my respect for the commissioner's judgment. acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the moment, acting on the spur of the moment, acting on the moment, acting on the moment, acting on the moment, acting on the moment, acting on the moment, these are very important matters and very sensible things to do here. they cover virtually every sector of our lives, from agriculture to cosmetics, supplements, diet, etc., etc., including air. i believe that the full risk should be assessed first and foremost, rather than the theoretical risks and reports from individual scientific papers. that's a little low. of course, there are such dangers. the world health organization also made a mistake once. not long ago, it recommended that all countries purchase a vaccine for all their citizens against swine flu. i'm here to inform you that 90% of the vaccine stock has been disposed of.
we in the european union attach great importance to the quality, the standards, the safety of the products we make. the most important thing is, of course, the health of the consumer and the quality of the products. and this is true across a wide range of different products, from children's toys to the many commodities that we use in the marketplace, to the most important issues when it comes to food, which is a major determinant of human health. in this context, a number of critical comments were made on the use of plant protection products. and rightly so. but at the same time, let's also take into account that these changes that are happening are very significant. it's not enough, we need to monitor it more, we need to evaluate it more, but the plant protection industry is already very thoroughly testing new products to ensure that they are safe and effective. of course, we have to continue to monitor, to control, but this progress is big, it's visible, and it's worth remembering, because we have to keep -- health is first, of course -- but we also have to keep our agriculture competitive with other regions of the world.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. consumers' health is paramount, which is why european farmers, processors and food producers strive to maintain a high bar when it comes to producing food to the highest standards. research and testing of new technologies and products are therefore constantly being carried out to further modernise and improve production. this also makes plant protection products better and safer. unjustified withdrawal of such products from the market would mean a failure of the whole food production system and european agriculture would lose its competitiveness on world markets altogether. i would urge caution that the exclusionary action is not too hasty and is based on thorough analysis and irrefutable scientific studies that will determine whether the substance has a clear harmful effect, in this case on the endocrine system. we must also not forget that we may be able to exclude plant protection products from the european market, but unfortunately not from the world market. and in this globalized world, we also have no control over what we eat or what we touch.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mr michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on transport, on the impact of russian restrictions on international road hauliers (o-000005/2015 - b8-0105/2015).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the introduction by the russian federation of a ban on imports of a specific catalogue of agri-food products from the european union has caused a significant deterioration in the situation of many companies in the trade, processing, breeding and agricultural sectors, as well as to a large extent in the transport sector. the ban on the entry of vehicles carrying these items results in the absence of any real possibility of any cargo passing through the territory of russia, which generates millions of losses and often becomes the cause of the bankruptcy of many companies operating in the transport sector. it should be noted that in addition to the purely economic factors, social factors must also be considered. this is the specter of unemployment for many people who will sooner or later require social support, even in the form of benefits. this is a great misfortune and uncertainty for a number of entities producing goods exported to russia and for many owners of transport companies, employees and their families. these problems are not limited to polish companies, although a large part of these losses are generated by companies in my country. i therefore believe it is important that we, as the european union, act in solidarity to find solutions that effectively protect the interests of economic operators in the context of restrictions. the absence of mechanisms to counter the negative effects of the embargo may disrupt the functioning of the transport market of the european union, as well as other markets, due to the strong links between transport and other industries. in the course of the 2014 transport council, poland proposed the implementation of specific solutions to support transport companies that have been affected by the russian embargo, such as the application of a higher rate of permitted public aid or support for operators that decide to withdraw part of their rolling stock due to environmental factors. i am glad that the european commission is aware of the problems associated with the embargo, but i would like to ask the commissioner what specific solutions does the commission propose, what support does it propose? this is what entrepreneurs are waiting for, companies are waiting for, employees are waiting for, and they may lose their jobs.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and to speak on this important matter, because i think that as we are all sitting here, we will agree that the russian embargo on products, agri-foodstuffs is hitting the european, i stress the european, transport industry very hard and is causing serious disruption in the international transport market. this is not a problem of one country, it is not a local problem, it is a european problem, and countries like lithuania, latvia, slovakia, the czech republic, bulgaria, greece and my country, poland, are losing a lot from this embargo. it is sufficient to say that since august 2014, when the embargo was imposed, the losses of the polish transport sector amounted to eur 22 million, and in november they had already increased to eur 48 million. the russian side is making it difficult or even impossible for agricultural and food products to transit through other countries, and i would also like to draw your attention to the asymmetry in the treatment of transport between the european union and russia, because if european transport companies are subject to an embargo, they are subject to detailed controls, but this is not the case for russian companies. it is certainly worth considering what can be done to make this asymmetry in relations between russia and the european union disappear in this area. and finally, something very important. european carriers have been caught in a real quandary for several months now, because on the one hand, the minimum wage in germany is significantly affecting the operation of transport companies in europe, and on the other hand, the russian embargo. i would therefore like to appeal here and ask the commissioner - and i am glad that you have said very openly that you are aware of these problems - but i would like to appeal to the commissioner to consider a compensation scheme or at least to relax the rules on support for road hauliers in the framework of de minimis aid for the restructuring of credit or leasing obligations.
mr. chairman, please! it is obvious, and i agree with all those who have pointed out that the russian sanctions against the european transport sector are caused by our sanctions against russia, but let us realize, ladies and gentlemen, where our sanctions have come from. they were born out of the crime and the russian attack on ukraine, a country that is a neighbor of the european union. the front national mp says: "let's lift the sanctions and go back to the beginning, everything will be fine". my dear lady! this year marks 200 years since the word "bistro" was first used in your language. i think you know where it came from. i do not wish such words to appear in your tongue yet. ladies and gentlemen! sanctions cost because defense costs. the russian attack is also costly, but we must make an effort to ensure that such words never appear in your language again, or in ours.
i just wanted to say thank you so much. well, i want to make it very clear that these russian sanctions against international carriers require three actions. and it has to be a consistent action. first, it is absolutely necessary that all the countries that make up the union show firm solidarity. we must counter russia, which wants to break this solidarity completely. secondly, i believe that the european commission should take a much stronger stance than it has taken up to now against russia's blocking of access to third countries. and thirdly, it's not that you shouldn't help the trucking companies financially as well. these companies must receive much more financial support than they have so far, because the effect may be that the restrictions will end someday, and the transport companies will not last until then.
mr. chairman, please! it has been said several times in this room that the russian embargo is a political decision, a reaction to a political decision of the european union but if this is the case, the european union should be in solidarity and should stand in solidarity in defence of those sectors that are losing out on this embargo. the european union has enormous financial resources. there is the globalisation adjustment fund. it seems that in such a dramatic situation, especially for companies from central and eastern european countries, this fund could be a source of at least partial compensation for transport operators. in poland, this affects one third of the polish transport sector, thousands of jobs, which are increasingly at risk. i would like to draw the attention of the commissioner once again to the dramatic situation of transport companies in poland. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. countries are counting these losses. the commission notes that the polish authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. these are huge losses, which are causing increasing financial difficulties for transport companies. this is probably also true - perhaps to a lesser extent - of the czech republic, the baltic states and finland. i think the problem is so european that we should act in solidarity on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! i will not repeat here how much the embargo has hit the transport companies in the european union. costs in the tens of millions of euros, not only for those companies that were doing direct transport to russia, but also for those for whom russia was a transit country. there is no doubt that the european union should be solidary in this situation and the european commission should make efforts to support transport companies from the field and the european union. i wonder why de minimis aid to road hauliers could not be mitigated in this situation. it's a simple, quick and easy thing to do and it would certainly be very helpful to the transport companies. i think it is very important for the commission to look at.
mr. chairman, please! of course, the european union should compensate for all the costs that farmers and transport operators and all those who suffer as a result of these necessary sanctions have to bear. i stress the need for it. i was surprised by what mr. ferreira said, and i have to respond. if you say that the cause of all this was the neo-fascist actions taken in ukraine, mr. ambassador, it means that you do not understand what is happening there at all. you don't understand, portugal is far from these events, but it's really a great threat to all of europe, and you repeat the propaganda from the kremlin. that is not the way to speak and i regret that such voices are being heard in this house.
i would now ask the commissioner to comment on the numerous speeches by members who have called on the european commission to react and help, rather than handing the ball back to the member states, and have also referred to precedents in the past when transport companies (and others) had help from the european union during the period of sanctions against the yugoslav federation.
mr. postle, what are you doing? i wanted to apologize to you in person. your name was on the list. this is my fault. i'm sorry about that. i wanted to apologize, your name was on the list, i left it out, i'm sorry. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
in 2008, when russian tanks approached the georgian capital tbilisi, polish president lech kaczynski, who was defending georgia at the time, said that today it was georgia, tomorrow it would be ukraine, the day after that it would be the baltic states, and then it would be poland. president lech kaczynski was killed in a still unexplained disaster, and russia, under president putin, is pursuing this scenario. it's ukraine today: we all see what's happening there. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the words of the president of ukraine, petro poroshenko, who said that russia's imperial aspirations extend far beyond the size of ukraine. and i wanted to point out that the russian empire that vladimir putin is rebuilding, it didn't end in ukraine, it didn't end in poland, but it reached into the center of germany, berlin and the elbe. i would especially recommend this reflection to german politicians.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
i declare the 2014/2015 session of the european parliament closed.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i agree with what mr van de camp said in general. and i have a question for you: what will be the effect of this regulation and possibly the tendency to increase the weight of mega trucks in the market for rail transport? we're declaring everywhere: priority for the railways. what do you think?
mr. chairman, please! statistics show that over 75% of european freight transport is by road. it is therefore important that the revised rules deliver the expected results, such as increased safety, reduced energy consumption, reduced greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector and adaptation to the realities of technical progress and the use of good technologies, including in particular alternative powertrains, and improved aerodynamic characteristics of vehicles. i would like to draw attention to a few issues which are of great importance from the point of view of road infrastructure in the countries of the european union. i am glad that the special permits that allow non-standard vehicles to move around the country have been maintained. not all road infrastructure in the member states is adapted to the traffic of such large and heavy vehicles, for example due to climatic conditions or road quality. therefore, the prior consent of the two countries to the cross-border movement of mega-trucks, as well as the monitoring and assessment of the effects of the movement of these vehicles, will certainly significantly improve safety and allow the road infrastructure to remain in good condition. another important issue is vehicle overload. i would like to draw attention to the need to strengthen controls in this area, since the cost of implementing an effective pre-selection measurement system is often less than the sum of the costs of upgrading roads due to overloaded vehicles. in addition, the european commission's plans to introduce a new on-board truck weight control system in new vehicles, based on the installation of a current weighing system, are in my view a very good solution. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly and i am convinced that the agreement reached contains the key elements that are necessary and necessary.
mr. chairman, please! i join in the congratulations expressed by ms lukasiewska. mr jorg leichtfried has done a very good job. this is evidenced by the statement of commissioner bulc. it is rare for the commission to accept fully in its first words what has been worked out in parliament. secondly, it is also confirmed by the debate or dispute between mr. van dalen and mr. taylor. it means that mr. leichtfried has found the golden mean and the golden mean is the cabin and all the advantages that come with it: lengthening, but without loss to the cargo part. as for mega trucks or gigaliners, depending on what you want to call them, the issue is resolved here unequivocally, i.e. countries that want to have - can have, in cross-border traffic - the issue of agreements between countries. so one state does not impose its state on another state. and the last very important aspect is savings. it's not so much the size of the car, it's just the empty return lanes. if this gigaliner comes back empty, it's a real economic loss.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the debate about vehicles that are much longer and heavier than standard ones, called megatrucks, has been going on for decades. today we are working on a regulation which will require the adaptation of vehicle masses and dimensions to improve road transport efficiency. we know there were plans to allow these types of vehicles to operate without proper permits. but we have to remember that in the european union, including my country, poland, we differ in terms of different kinds of economic considerations, infrastructure, development of transport infrastructure, accessibility, in short, the full adoption of megatrans would require improving the parameters of roads and bridges, and thus increasing expenditure from the state budget for additional repairs and reconstruction of roads. i am therefore pleased that we in parliament have been able to work out such an agreement with the involvement of the european parliament, a position which upholds the current legal situation and takes into account an important issue for poland, namely the prevention of cross-border movement of vehicles of abnormal mass without additional authorisations. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. i believe that this regulation, this document, in a very sensible, good, coherent way, is trying to find those solutions which will take account of the specificities of countries such as finland, sweden or the united kingdom, but also takes account of the arguments i have spoken about in my speech with regard to the eastern european countries, and that is why i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the ecr group on this report.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. union rules on the maximum mass and dimensions of lorries are intended to protect road infrastructure and to contribute to increasing the level of safety of road users in the member states. of course, over time, the limits adopted require revision and (if necessary) adjustment to new conditions. one such condition is that the aim is to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of such vehicles. the main aim of the current amendment is therefore to increase the permissible weight and dimensions of trucks, but only to the extent that manufacturers can create environmentally friendly structures and install equipment to reduce emissions. changes beyond this precisely defined objective, and in particular the possibility of cross-border movement of so-called mega-trucks on roads throughout the union, would be contrary to the purpose of this directive and could not therefore be accepted by the european parliament. these vehicles have a negative impact on the state of the road infrastructure, as already mentioned here. i therefore consider that the changes to the dimensions and weights of heavy goods vehicles adopted as a result of the compromise are appropriate and will not have a negative impact on the basic objectives of this directive.
in writing. i support the draft directive because i believe that its implementation will improve road safety and reduce environmental pollution. the directive will improve the profile of the driver's cabin, which will increase the driver's field of vision and make it easier for other road users to see him. the new shape of the driver's cabin also reduces the impact energy in the event of a collision. solutions that reduce fuel consumption and reduce emissions are also worth supporting. i am in favour of giving member states two years to implement the directive once it has entered into force. i also support the idea of evaluating the effectiveness of these solutions after three years of use.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, for years both private and public investment has been in decline in europe, and today linking finance and the need for growth is crucial. that is why, in this house, we are sparing no effort to move the juncker plan as quickly as possible from idea to reality; that is why alain and colleagues are working with a sense of urgency towards creating the european long—term investment funds; that is why we must also ensure that the capital markets union will develop into a synergy that harnesses financial markets and services to produce growth through long—term investment. of course, to get money where growth is, it is important to have the right framework in place. for years we have been building on financial stability; now we need to ensure that growth is possible under financial stability. but it is rather unlikely that crowding—in private investment can happen overnight. creating an investment climate is essential and in order to create an investment climate, remaining regulatory barriers – including those that might have been generated by recent additions to the financial regulatory framework like solvency ii – as well as imperfections in capital markets, will have to be eliminated promptly. the message seems to me to be clear: delivering long—term finance will require a well—orchestrated effort from all the important players on the regulatory side, on the supply side, on the intermediation side and on the users’ side.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i believe that the european commission is right to encourage investors to invest in the long term. i am glad that the capital would be located throughout the union and would be available to investors regardless of where they live. the funds would then stimulate growth through the creation of infrastructure, technical capacity and educational and research outputs. through european long-term investment funds, pension funds, insurance companies, professional investors and even retail investors would be able to invest in their own country, across the european union and beyond. i am pleased that the text gives investors a margin of flexibility, which is very important at a time when investment in europe is so low.
mr president, mr lamassoure, your report deserves our support. i'll certainly support that. another comment: we have heard here about all kinds of obstacles that we cannot accept because either we have an unfinished market of one kind or another or we have different fiscal or financial systems between different member states. i suggest we not focus on our differences. let's just try to focus on what we can do together. so we have to change these systems. we need to put more of a community approach in place, which is what i propose: 'changing by doing investments, not complaining about not doing investments'. that would be the first such fundamental change. our political group is in favour of investment in the real sphere, not in speculation, and as mr rübig said a moment ago, i am in favour of considering investment in infrastructure, including transport infrastructure. we have a projected need for 2030 of 400 billion, maybe 500 billion euros. we have a budget until 2020 of 36 billion euros. if we could make up the difference in any way from these funds using the project bonds method, i think that would be a very beneficial solution and i support it.
in writing. the union needs instruments to stimulate long-term investment, including for large infrastructure projects. however, from the outset, the commission's legislative proposal on european long-term investment funds raised legitimate doubts. first of all, the commission was accused of having conducted a cursory public consultation and of not having taken into account all stakeholders. the main complaint was that the draft regulation submitted was imprecise and confusing. the proposed changes seem to have removed these doubts. another important complaint was that the prohibition on the pre-mortem disposition of shares could have reduced the attractiveness of the funds, especially among retail investors. the proposed changes seem to be moving in the right direction. on the one hand, the prohibition remains in force ensuring the stability of financing and planning with these funds and on the other hand, the possibility of the withdrawal of shares is allowed if the fund manager establishes a specific withdrawal policy that takes into account the interests of all parties. unfortunately, another major problem concerning the maturity adjustment principle introduced by the regulation has not been resolved. many experts point out that this may reduce profitability and thus the attractiveness of the funds, primarily because of the risk of reaching prices that are unsatisfactory to investors. it is highly likely that they will compensate themselves with the expected interest on the loans granted, thus increasing the cost of the investment.
in writing. – i voted for this resolution because it supports people, from an employment institution that has been closed. it also affects a polish employment institution called zachem. it is a good decision taken by the european parliament. unfortunately, there are sad implications: we are rescuing only four employment institutions in belgium. but one in poland.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the proposal was adopted by an overwhelming majority and i congratulate mr olbricht on another well-written report. this proposal is one of the last two to be examined under the 2006 egf regulation and therefore has a positive result in the vote. zachem was the largest employer in the kujawy-pomorskie region. workers dismissed directly or indirectly from zachem accounted for 60% of all newly registered unemployed persons at the district labour office in bydgoszcz. the region as a whole has the highest unemployment rate in the country, reaching 17,4% in july 2013, despite the economic expansion that the region has benefited from. the factory's end product was so specific that it required specialized knowledge. the re-skilling of redundant workers is therefore extremely difficult. the financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund shall be eur 115 205. this aid is intended for 50 workers in particularly difficult situations and is implemented through employment subsidies and intervention work. the largest part of the allocation for personalised services will be allocated to employment bonuses, which will cover 45 employees and will provide incentives for employers who decide to employ these workers for at least 24 months. a smaller amount is provided to 5 redundant workers over 50 years of age to help them pay their social security contributions. this age group is more at risk of long-term unemployment and exclusion from the labour market.
in writing. the kujawy-pomeranian voivodeship is one of the regions with the highest unemployment rate. the dismissal of over a few hundred employees by the largest employer was a huge tragedy for the area. 60% of the new unemployed were employees of zach and his co-workers. the deterioration of the financial situation of this company was a direct result of the processes of globalisation and the shift of chemical production to asia. in ten years, the share of european companies in the chemicals sector has fallen from 30% to almost 18%. the polish state has taken a number of measures to help redundant people find new jobs. they have been largely successful. of the more than 600 exempted, only 50 require more support co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund. these are the most disadvantaged people, who, because of their age and skills, have great difficulty finding new jobs. so the case of zach's former employees requires the funds from the fund to be activated. i would like to conclude by drawing attention to a very important point. since the submission of the application, the commission has needed more than one year to prepare the draft decision this has taken far too long. given that the globalisation adjustment fund was intended to operate very quickly due to the nature of the assistance, this is a significant problem. it is increasingly clear that the procedures in place are too time-consuming and that improvements should be considered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting former employees of zachem and two of his suppliers funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this form of compensation for lost jobs is of course only a small help, but any form of financial support that can be offered to redundant workers facing the liquidation of their workplace should be used. the egf is a flawed instrument that can only mitigate the effects of adverse developments in the european economy. in theory, the fund is intended to help redundant workers to re-qualify, but in practice it is an admission of a failure to protect jobs in the eu. globalisation is an inevitable process, but it is also the responsibility of the member states to take all necessary measures to counter its negative effects. the protection of jobs should be the first responsibility of both national authorities and the entire eu administrative machinery. it is easier to prevent capital outflows and the relocation of production to developing countries than to restore these jobs later by creating complex and doubtfully effective special investment funds. i hope that each egf operation will not only be a form of support for the workers made redundant, but also a reminder to those in power of the failure of the fight for jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the directive on the maximum dimensions and mass of heavy goods vehicles in international traffic within the european union. the revised rules in the compromise adopted have a specific objective: to bring european legislation into line with the expectations of truck, bus and coach manufacturers and users. the need to create environmentally friendly structures and safer for all road users requires the installation of devices and body parts that make the mass and dimensions of vehicles fall outside the current limits. it is appropriate, in my view, to revise these values to allow for such modifications. at the same time, the amendments adopted will not lead to the admission of so-called mega-trucks to cross-border traffic in the eu. the presence of such vehicles on polish roads would have a very negative impact on the state of the road infrastructure and the level of safety of other road users. poland, as a transit country for road transport, would be particularly affected by the admission of lhvs to cross-border traffic. that's why there's no justification for such far-reaching changes. the current revision of the weights and dimensions directive meets the requirements of reality for truck manufacturers to a sufficient extent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it will harmonise the rules on the limitation of transaction fees. currently, interchange fees for processing card-based transactions vary between eu countries, where they are subject to legislation in some cases and administrative decisions in others. the fees are levied by banks belonging to so-called 'quadrilateral' systems, in which the card-issuing bank, the merchant-handling bank, the merchant and the card user are involved and together control a significant part of the market. merchants pay for each transaction with a card and add these costs to the prices of goods and services offered. in supporting the adoption of this report, i believe that the fees charged by banks for handling card payments made at points of sale will be reduced throughout the eu. the cap on fees applies to both domestic and cross-border payments, which should result in lower costs for payment card users. the new legislation should improve the transparency of charges, increase competition and allow not only traders but also customers to choose the system offering the best conditions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of today's vote, which fully reflects the need to develop comprehensive actions to promote women's participation in the labour market. despite the efforts of the commission and the member states, the growth rate of women's employment remains unsatisfactory. since 2002, it has changed from only 58,1% to 62,8%. if current trends continue, the 75% target of the europe 2020 strategy will not be reached until 2038. if the gender pay gap continues, women and men will not earn the same wage until 2084. disproportions are also evident in poverty, with 22% of older women at risk of poverty compared to 16.3% of men. after a period of drastic tightening of the belt during the crisis, it is time to revive growth so that europe becomes a strong economy with sustainable growth and social inclusion. in this context, priority will need to be given to measures to reconcile private and professional life. formal childcare services in europe remain very expensive, preventing as many as 53% of women from working, according to a survey by the european commission. the report welcomes the proposal to introduce 10 days of paid paternity leave and to treat women's right to decide on their reproductive plans as a fundamental right. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr marc tarabella, on his excellent report.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the european parliament adopted the report by mr marc tarabella on the progress made in the area of equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. it is a scandal that parliament is demanding that abortion be introduced throughout the union. i would like to stress that the member states are responsible for their own worldview. abortion is not a fundamental human right, it's murder. the document also challenges the traditional family model and christian values by promoting a new social system where there is no father and no mother, and education obscures the gender identity of children. i voted against this resolution because it interferes with the competence of the member states, breaking the principle of subsidiarity. i am deeply convinced that the eu institutions should not be pressing for the public to have access to abortion. the european parliament as the only eu body directly elected by democratic means should listen to the voice of its citizens, and a large majority of them do not wish to be subjected to such pressure.
in writing. ‒ controversial in poland report on progress towards equality between women and men in the european union 2013 marca tarabelli is not only a summary but also a strategic one, as it sets key objectives in the pursuit of gender equality. gender equality is not only a fundamental element of social justice enshrined in the treaty on european union (articles 2 and 3), but also a prerequisite for stable and inclusive economic growth. the continuing inequalities between women and men in the labour market limit the use of women's talents and skills, which is detrimental to the economy, and undermine the constitutional principle of social justice. the accumulation of inequality in the labour market results in a pension gap of 39%, which translates into poverty for women. effective policies for reconciling work and family roles, tackling labour market inequalities and gender mainstreaming are therefore a priority for gender equality, which is one of the eu's core values. in support of gender equality, i voted in favour of the report, including gender budgeting, quotas for women in decision-making positions, gender-equal education, access to reproductive health and sexual education, inclusion of the notion of violence against women and girls in article 84 of the treaty and other proposals in the strategy. the exception was the abortion part: i voted against abortion equality in the roll call.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013, primarily because the european parliament is not the competent institution to decide on progress and directions of action in areas which, in the spirit of the treaties, are reserved to the member states. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. the reference in this document to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence is evidence of a lack of understanding of the diversity of the causes of violence and the existence of gender inequalities in the member states. to generalize about this and to blame religion, culture and the traditional family model for it only distances us from finding effective solutions to these problems. it is also unacceptable to refer to sexual and reproductive rights as fundamental rights. in a euphemistic way, they try to include abortion as a tool for improving the social and economic situation of women. it is clear that the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men in society is necessary, but not through ideological offensive, but through adequate funding of instruments to combine professional and family roles. supporting the traditional family model, not denying it, is the only right thing to do.
in writing. ‒ the continuous efforts to level the playing field throughout the european union are commendable. the community is founded on an open market economy and free competition, and on a single internal market, of which a proper competition policy is an essential part. unfortunately, despite all efforts, the conditions of competition are different in the member states today. each country has its own tax laws, business support system and social security system. we also remember recent reports that some countries are using dirty tricks to attract investors. many companies exploit the usual loopholes in the law, and some enjoy individual, unintelligible privileges. we also have a lot of work to do in the area of competition policy in the area of equitable access to energy resources. unfortunately, as a result of political decisions, some countries are forced to pay a much higher price for gas than others. such an attitude also does not allow for a level playing field. another area is direct subsidies. the prices of fuels, fertilisers and agricultural machinery are similar throughout the union. and yet there are still differences in the level of subsidies between countries. there are many examples of this. we must do everything we can to ensure that the conditions on the european market are increasingly fair.
in writing. ‒ competition policy and competitiveness itself are essential for sustainable development and the overall well-being of the eu and its citizens. by fostering an innovative culture of competitiveness, the eu's chances of emerging from the financial crisis are increased, which is why competitiveness is so high on our political agenda. the european parliament plays an important role in this context, calling for important decisions to be taken in this area. the transparent application of union rules should be ensured in a firm and fair manner. it is also necessary to respect the principle of subsidiarity and to respect the decisions of national courts in the field of competition policy. from a practical national perspective, it is important to support actions to modernise state aid policy, to fight cartels and to investigate whether dominant companies are abusing their influence. the financial sector should be closely monitored, with particular attention to transparency in all external encounters. the need to cooperate closely with the authorities of third countries and international organisations in order to investigate any suspicion of illegal use of tax advantages linked to state aid must not be overlooked. eu competition policy should also be shaped in full respect of the treaties. in the light of these expectations, particular attention should be paid to the dialogue that should be maintained between the commissioner for competitiveness and the european parliament, since the aim is to develop direct benefits for consumers, businesses and society as a whole.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. we're discussing next year's budget in a very uncertain situation. we're basically talking about next year's budget, when there's a few things to consider. firstly, this will be the third year of this financial perspective. we don't always remember this because traditionally there has been a one-year slippage, but this will be the third year (2014, 2015, 2016 third year of perspective), which means that this will be the year when hopefully all the operational programmes will be prepared and all the work will start, meaning we will be dealing with the first major payments that will already be used. secondly, this is the year in which we will have to try to deal with (as the commissioner says) the unpaid payments from previous years, and this will be imposed on the situation of new investments, because we know very well that there are not two budgets - one old and one new - it all comes from one budget. so this is the third year and we are also looking at, hopefully, the second year of the new fund. so the third year of the perspective, the second year of the fund and then the question of payments, and then the revision of the multiannual perspective. we are going to have a very difficult year and the environment is also very complicated. we declare full cooperation, but we need to be very specific about the exchange of information, current information.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the debate on the 2016 budget begins at a time when most member states are facing very low growth, often recession, high unemployment, increasing deflation and serious fiscal problems. in this context, parliament is very hopeful that the 2016 budget and the juncker plan will help to reverse these negative trends. i wanted to raise three serious concerns about these matters. first, the commission, council and parliament despite previous repeated assurances do not appear to have been able to resolve the problem of overdue payments in 2015, and this undermines the credibility of all three institutions. although the union budget is primarily investment-oriented, it is illusory to hope that these investments will be the main part of the growth in investment in individual member states if there is no willingness to invest from the private sector. finally, thirdly, the hopes attached to the juncker plan may be dim, as the lack of willingness of the private sector to invest is not due to a lack of access to finance but rather to a lack of confidence in the prospects for the development of the union economy.
madam president, my dear cristalina, my dear nadia, i am very sorry for your loss. we open the 2016 budgetary procedure with full awareness of the backlog, i.e. the unpaid bills from last year. these unpaid bills also affect countries that are recovering from the crisis. this, of course, sets the goal for 2016 to stop the snowball effect. we all know this, which is why we expect the commission to come up with an ambitious project, one that meets the financial perspective's ceilings. 2016 is also the year that the so-called phasing in of the new financial perspective, or the repayment of old programmes, ends. we are starting the new generation of programmes agreed in recent weeks between the commission and the individual regions and countries of the european union. this is a significant challenge. the other challenge, which is very important, is to fulfil the promises that have not been fulfilled, promises that have political and financial weight, i.e. budgetary weight: namely, the youth employment initiative, which, unexpectedly for me, has an increasing advance of up to 30% (i do not know how this will happen with these pay cuts, but this is a major challenge, because this programme simply does not work as it has been so far), and the juncker programme, which uses budgetary guarantees. these are the key challenges that make 2016 such a budgetary stress test, including a certain test of the credibility of the european institutions.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i think that the guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget proposed by mr fernandez are a very well-balanced proposal and an excellent basis for further work. i join all those voices that have been heard in this room today and long before, to develop concrete and lasting solutions to the problem of accumulating unpaid bills. the commissioner was talking about unpaid invoices of over 24 billion euros. i would also like to call for the planned cuts in horizon 2020 for the fund for strategic investments to be reasonable and fair, so as not to impede research and innovation activities.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the european businessman is very interested in whether the eu money is being used properly and what happens to it. if he hears that over 2 billion euros have been spent improperly (in diplomatic language), well, it must really stir and stir strong emotions, we have to reckon with that. and of course i am glad that it is mostly a matter of irregularities rather than fraudulent fraud, although i would point out that in the recent period the number of fraudulent fraud has increased by as much as 30%. but whether it's a matter of irregularity or abuse, it's perhaps less important from the point of view of our voter, our taxpayer. the important thing is that the union's money, and therefore all of our money, is lost in some way. of course, we must acknowledge the successes of olaf. i agree with my predecessor, although of course we should also support efforts to improve its operation. we've been talking about this for years in the budget control committee. i was just about to commend olaf for its cooperation with the member states. this is important, this is necessary. the main issue is the political will of the individual member states to fight corruption. it is not always the same, and i think that we should not only be talking about the european commission here, but also about our countries, where we are elected. do governments everywhere fight corruption on paper, or do they fight it in practice? i stress, it's not the same in my country. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much, mr. postle, for that important question. i'm not entirely convinced, to be quite frank, whether another institution that is supposed to reduce the powers of existing institutions that deal with fighting corruption, like olaf and more, will it be such a panacea, or will it be such a salvation? i would not be in a hurry to call the body you speak of, i would be rather skeptical. i think we need to make better use of the instruments that we have.
blue-card question.– the debate is on the protection of european interests, not on corruption. do you not think that we are losing much more money on the legal and official projects, when in my opinion – i do not know your opinion – 95% of the money spent on offshore projects is wasted and, moreover, these are harmful to the european economy?
madam president! we all want to protect the community's financial interests, but it is also a matter of public integrity, of combating corruption. and the fundamental element that ensures that european money is spent fairly is openness, transparency. any union money that goes to any beneficiary should be transparent and it should be publicly known in each case who received any support from union funds and for what reason. unfortunately, this is not the case in practice. i have experience when i tried to find out who in poland received money related to the help to fight the bacteria e. coli, there were great difficulties in getting this information, and still are. i hope that this will be a thing of the past, that after the recent changes in the law, openness will be an unquestioned principle, because it is the main instrument in the fight against corruption and the defrauding of public money.
madam president! every financial operation must be accompanied by a special concern for the proper use of the money from the eu budget. this is in the interest of the european union as a whole and of the member states as a whole. public money spent properly is better used to achieve the objectives set, but it also builds citizens' trust in public institutions. it is true that the diversity of legal and administrative systems makes it considerably more difficult to combat irregularities and abuses. however, the nature of these negative phenomena must be such as to mobilise the introduction of effective countermeasures as soon as possible. the low recovery rate of fraud losses is a serious concern. while this rate increased significantly in 2013, which undoubtedly indicates a growing determination of the institutions responsible, it requires the definition of common reporting principles and the in-depth analysis of adverse events to the detriment of the budget of the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2014 progress report on montenegro (2014/2947 ((rsp))
i want to congratulate the government of montenegro on the progress in accession negotiations. i am also pleased that the european commission has noted in its report an improvement in the situation of people with disabilities. this is very important, especially in terms of the government's integration policy towards this group of citizens. however, like commissioner hahn, i would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of public buildings, including medical and educational facilities, are still not adequately adapted to the needs of disabled people. similarly, legislation on the prohibition of discrimination against people with disabilities still has gaps, and funding for employers of people with disabilities is not sufficiently protected against abuse. as the report shows, the government of montenegro faces many challenges, but i am confident that with the current determination, this government will be able to achieve its goals.
madam president! i thank the rapporteur very much for his very reliable and optimistic report that serbia is already further along the road to european integration. for me, it is a question of our attitude to european solidarity. i was happy when slovenia joined the european union, i was very happy when croatia joined the european union and i think we should also open the door to serbia with goodwill. this is a matter of - i repeat once again - european solidarity and the union should be clear on this. and i can't help but notice what a british colleague of farage's said. there is no middle ground between europe and russia. if we don't open the door to serbia, if we don't talk with good will, serbia will be in the russian zone. unfortunately, once again farage's party has been the voice of moscow. we should speak with the voice of european unity and solidarity.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in 2005, a german intelligence report described kosovo as a large mafia network, which, i quote, "prevents the establishment of a politically and economically stable socio-political structure". this has not prevented a significant part of the international community from recognising kosovo's independence. i want to make it clear that this was a serious geopolitical mistake. it was not a state that met the basic requirements of the rule of law that was recognized as independent, but rather criminal organizations operating there whose conglomerate did not deserve to be called a state. today, the system is run by dozens of mafia clans that derive huge profits from the trade in heroin, human flesh and organs. i would also like to remind you that the union is in formal accession negotiations with serbia. equal commitment to kosovo undermines the coherence of our foreign policy and could damage eu-serbia relations, which is in russia's direct interest. putin is watching the balkans closely and will try to discourage serbia from getting closer to the european union. if we lose serbia, we lose the entire balkans, putting them back into russia's economic and political sphere of influence. i therefore recommend that we exercise particular caution and balance our european interests in this region. the commissioner has pointed out that we are about to make another derogation in respect of kosovo. the one exception was the granting of early recognition. at the moment, we are not dealing with a mixed agreement involving member states, but, for simplicity's sake (because some member states do not recognise kosovo), with an agreement concluded exclusively with the union. one mistake made, and one mistake made again.
madam president! i wanted to congratulate mrs. lunacek on a report that was really balanced. i particularly noted with great sympathy commissioner hahn's last remark that 'this is a promising process'. during this debate we spoke of all kinds of shortcomings, deficiencies and, one might even say, very negative developments within kosovo, which mr karol karski has spoken very clearly about. the fundamental problem we face there is the perspective for these people, the chance to be who they are, what chance they have within this small or even very small state. and what we are talking about when we talk about possible membership in the union, association with it, is giving them a perspective. i think that's the perspective we owe them as the european union after all the experiences that this region has been through.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am listening to this debate and, as far as the energy union is concerned, one thing is clear from it, ladies and gentlemen: it is obvious from the data we have heard 53% of our energy is imported, it is 40% more expensive than in the united states that the decarbonisation demand and the policy towards this direction, towards basically only renewable energy sources, is putting out the fire with gasoline, because it will lead to the collapse of the european economy, and as far as the prices that european citizens pay today for electricity are concerned, i assure you that they will not fall, but will increase significantly, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of jobs that we will lose in the european forest. we should therefore pursue a sensible policy, and the sensible policy in this case is a policy of respecting technological neutrality, of using those energy sources that member states have today. and that is where spending, including eu funds, should go, to leave the european countries the possibility of self-determination, the possibility of sovereign decision-making on the extent to which they will pursue their development. of course, taking into account the need to develop new technologies, but these technologies already exist, also in the field of coal combustion, and at the same time moving towards climate protection, but in a sensible and safe way for the european economy. this is my great call for such action in the energy union in the years ahead. the union should be as energy-sovereign as possible, that is obvious, but let us remember that this also means increasing our domestic energy production. and that's the fundamental issue: making the most of the resources we have. and the second thing i want to bring up is the issue of ukraine. i have always regretted that the european union was not directly represented in minsk. nevertheless, an agreement was reached. and now the most important thing is to do everything we can to make sure that this agreement is respected. because you can't say that the agreement is only partially respected. that can't be enough for us. as recently as the night before, ukrainian positions were bombed twelve times, not with light weapons, but with heavy 152mm guns, which should not have been there for a long time, and nine ukrainian soldiers were wounded. i call on the council to adopt a unanimous policy on this matter, to unite the european union and to act in solidarity. we need to respond to ukraine's needs, we need to provide the help that ukraine will expect, and we need to decide on it together, showing the strength of the european union and the opposition to russia's imperialist policy, which means attacking sovereign and independent countries.
madam president! as stated here on behalf of the council, the march council is primarily an economic council, but i think there is a strong political component here, because the question of the energy union is not only an economic dimension but above all a political dimension, important for all member states. we need this strategy, we need energy security, we also need the future shape of energy, it should have both its external dimension and also be based on the eu's own energy market. this union should be built on the principles of solidarity and transparency. we remember those times when solidarity was lacking and many member states, many societies suffered from energy shortages. the energy union cannot be reduced to a mere revision of the regulation on the security of gas supply. and by the way, there was a lot of doubt at the time whether it could even function in the form that we had adopted. it turns out we were right, but these regulations are not enough. the key element will be transparency and the involvement of the european commission in the negotiation and signing of energy agreements with third countries, but i think the final model could be joint supply negotiations. we know it's difficult, that many here have a different opinion. we should talk about the integration of energy networks and energy markets, the integration of gas networks, but also the development of energy based on own resources. let us not forget the strength of the european union, which includes its own resources, whether renewable, conventional or alternative. the neighbourhood policy the eastern partnership requires stronger support. i would like this project not to be seen as a project that goes back to the past, but as a project that is to build the future, especially in terms of the eastern partnership and ukraine, which we are concerned about being a country that could return to the family of european nations (...). (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. we cannot ignore the history of central and eastern europe, nor the economic unions that were established at that time. each member state, on the other hand, is building its political future on the basis of its own priorities. the priority for poland is to build energy independence, we understand this very well. i, on the other hand, would not like to be a critic of the hungarian government's actions. i think that the hungarian government must also act in view of the fact that it is a member state of the european union.
in writing. the european summit is always an event that is expected and analysed in terms of the messages it conveys. the outcome of the summit is a testament to the unity, cohesion and solidarity of the european union, and this issue has generated much debate, leading to different conclusions and opinions. today's speech by president juncker shows the important areas of activity of the european commission. that's a lot for a period of activity, but the real challenges are still ahead. i would have expected a more specific timetable for the creation of the energy union. because if energy prices in the us are 40% lower than in the eu, what does that say about our competitiveness, especially in the context of ttip? ambitious climate policy goals are holding back our economic growth. does this not require a re-analysis and re-evaluation?
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe needs growth. without a return to sustainable growth, we will not be able to cope with the debt burden, reduce unemployment, finance important social needs and, above all, restore our people's faith in the sense of a united europe. we're not gonna restore hope for a better future. we're all tired of the long crisis. production in the european union only last year reached its pre-crisis level of 2008. so, we can talk about six years wasted. there are different opinions on the causes of this long-term stagnation. we often hear, even in this chamber, that the main cause of the economic collapse is budgetary austerity, that it has led to mass unemployment and falling incomes. we don't share those views. the budget cuts were a necessary response to the excessive spending before the crisis, spending that led to uncontrolled debt growth. the fundamental cause of the current difficulties has been the irresponsible fiscal policies of governments and the equally irresponsible credit policies of banks in some countries. it could have been avoided, because there was no obligation to go into debt. however, in 2014 there were signs of economic recovery. after a two-year period of decline, the gross domestic product of the european union rose by 1.6% and is forecast by the european commission to accelerate to 2.1% next year. these data confirm that the difficult fiscal consolidation and structural reforms undertaken in many member states are delivering the desired results. countries under adjustment programmes, such as ireland and portugal, have been able to rebuild their financial credibility, and ireland is the fastest growing economy in the union. however, the foundations of economic growth remain fragile. further action is urgently needed to strengthen macroeconomic stability, create jobs, accelerate investment and improve the competitiveness of european economies. the european commission's annual growth survey is a document that proposes such actions. the commission proposes an integrated approach to growth based on three pillars. these are the investment support programme of the european fund for strategic investments, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and the necessary structural reforms. the investment pillar aims not only to create a fund with an investment potential of over eur 300 billion, but also to be a confidence-building instrument for private investors. growth-friendly fiscal consolidation aims to strengthen public finances and restore the ability of indebted countries to raise funds on the market. it also aims to protect public investment, especially in areas such as infrastructure, education and healthcare. finally, structural reforms are aimed at modernising european economies: improving competitiveness through labour market reform, removing barriers in product and service markets and creating favourable conditions for business, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. however, not all agree with these proposals. there are ideas to get out of the crisis by going into debt. in this context, it is proposed to relax the eu's fiscal rules and to suspend structural reforms. mr. chairman, please! we don't agree with those ideas. we consider them frivolous and irresponsible. their implementation would deepen the crisis and threaten the integrity of the euro area. the obvious question is, where will the money come from to finance the next debt? we therefore support the commission's position that these three areas of action should be among the priorities of the economic policy of the member states for the coming years in the next cycle of country-specific recommendations. we also stress the need for the member states to be fully involved in these priorities. it cannot be that when it comes to difficult decisions, difficult reforms, individual governments shift the responsibility onto brussels. we expect national authorities, governments and parliaments in the member states to fully identify with the reforms and take responsibility for their implementation. the european union cannot be treated like a bad cop. we all have a responsibility for europe.
mr. chairman, please! both mr rosati and mr prieto have pointed out in their reports to the democratic deficit. in his report, mr rosati calls on the commission to make the necessary proposals to tackle the problem of democratic accountability in the application and accountability of the institutions in economic governance. i do not know how the commission would do that. the governance of the single market in the european semester necessarily limits the role of national parliaments in shaping member states' budgets. this is particularly the case for euro area debtor countries and non-euro area countries that are dependent on the inflow of union funds. it puts decisions in the hands of anonymous officials or experts, and it undermines democracy, which is only alive at the level of nation states. so democracy is replaced by technocracy. i think we need to move away from the idea that centralization, that putting decisions in the hands of officials, even competent officials, is a guarantee of economic rationality, and democracy is a disruption.
vice—president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this very interesting and fruitful debate here today. the parliament has an important role in the debate on european economic policies and i have carefully taken note of the remarks and points raised today. while we can certainly say that europe is starting to recover from a deep economic and financial crisis and while we are expecting all 28 eu member states to have positive economic growth this year, our concern is weak recovery and slow job creation. this is a concern which we need to address through the means of the european macroeconomic policy. while different views and opinions were expressed today during the debate, i am pleased to see that many meps largely share our integrated approach on economic policy based on investment, structural reforms and a growth—friendly, fiscally—responsible policy. the commission welcomes parliament’s contribution to the european semester by way of its regular and timely reports, such as those which we have been discussing today. i believe we share the same goals of promoting growth and job creation and i look forward to good cooperation with parliament in the future as regards european macroeconomic governance.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president and honourable members, the debate on the european semester is an important one and we had here today a very substantial one. the amount of work invested in this process by the commission, the european parliament and the council is clear evidence of this. given that the debate is overrunning, i will make only a couple of very short remarks. concerning the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), prepared by mr rosati, i am glad that it supports the three—pillar approach of the annual growth survey and the streamlining of the european semester. as concerns the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), the council shares the view of the need to further deepen the single market. more than 20 years after its creation, the single market is still far from complete. more work should be invested towards achieving this goal. in response to the remarks made by the rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), mr prieto, i would like to say that the council does recognise the importance of the social dimension of the european semester. only two days ago, the epsco council discussed, among other things, such issues as reducing the tax wage on labour, ensuring an adequate level of social protection, and the need to strengthen efforts to fight poverty, social exclusion and inequality. the conclusions adopted by the epsco council provide an important political orientation to our further work. let me also mention that the lessons—learned exercises that we have conducted, on the council side, on previous european semesters recommend further stepping—up of the involvement of political level representatives, including national parliaments, in the european semester at the national level. i welcome the work you have done in intensifying the interparliamentary dialogue which facilitates the work of national parliaments in this regard. the european semester is an evolving tool. we have to keep improving its effectiveness as well as its accountability aspect, while also acknowledging that these go further and that they go together. we look forward to continuing the debate with parliament on how to improve this semester and the following ones. the presidency will put all its energy in ensuring an effective european semester for 2015. the recommendations that will emerge this summer should reflect our common goals and the main challenges of each country. most importantly, they should be ‘owned’ by the member states, who will be responsible for putting them into effect. i would like to use this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for the hard work. i believe that the discussion is not over. it shall continue at various levels, for example on 13 march the transport council will discuss their contribution to the synthesis report. continuous involvement by the european parliament is very instrumental. thank you for this debate and the fruitful exchange of views. i shall stop here so as not to delay the voting.
rapporteur.– mr president, let me first express my thanks for the debate we have had in this house: i would like to express my thanks to all the colleagues who participated in the debate and especially to the shadow rapporteurs, with whom i had very fruitful cooperation throughout the whole period of preparing the report. of course, we did not agree on everything, but i appreciated their readiness to find reasonable compromises. now, on the debate, i would like to refer briefly to three points. the first is the recurring theme of austerity. many colleagues complained that austerity is creating ruin in their countries’ social models. well, let me remind you once again that austerity measures were simply a necessary reaction, a necessary adjustment to the excessive spending in the period before the crisis. all those countries which had irresponsible budget policies had, of course, to make some cuts, and that is nothing to complain about. those countries which were prudent in their budgetary policies have not had to resort to austerity. the second point i would like to refer to is the social cost involved in these structural reforms. i very much share the view that there have been social costs involved with fiscal consolidation and reforms. nevertheless, we have to remember that if wages were growing at a pace much higher than productivity before the crisis, then there is a need for those wages to come down. so we should not be surprised that, in some countries, wages and incomes have had to come down, simply in order to stay in line with productivity. lastly, as to the point about bureaucrats in brussels who allegedly imposed restrictions on our countries: this is simply not true. all the member states agreed on the fiscal rules, and the bureaucrats in brussels are merely responsible for enforcing them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the amendment of the gfcm agreement was initiated in 2013. following the review of the results of the action, completed in 2011, it was concluded that the agreement should be amended to clarify its objectives and functions and to enhance its effectiveness. the overall objective of the present agreement is the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. the main tasks of the commission will be to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. the document also sets out clear rules governing the dispute settlement mechanism in case of disputes between the parties to the contract. the new agreement integrates the key elements of the common strategy on maximising sustainable fishing, protecting the ecosystem, reducing discards and combating illegal and unregulated fishing, which will help to make the common fisheries policy more effective.
in writing. ‒ ensure a better balance of eu priorities for the coming year. the eu budget should be a tool for creating jobs, new businesses, supporting entrepreneurship, which are essential to ensure sustainable growth in the eu, the european investment plan and fighting the payments crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2016 budget should not be a copy of the existing solutions, but should support the investment programme in europe more broadly. the european fund for strategic investments will be launched in 2016. the european commission is now seeking to provide it with €16 billion, with the expectation that the european central bank will increase the funds. however, the planned eur 16 billion is far too low and will not bring about a significant increase in investment, a significant part of which is to be allocated to infrastructure investments. in poland, too, a dozen sections of motorways and railway investments are planned to be co-financed by the fund. in my view, all the savings in the european union budget should be directed to the investment fund, because it helps to revive the economy and create new jobs, which is to say, to solve the fundamental social problem in europe.
in writing. ‒ we must strengthen measures to combat fraud and pursue a zero-tolerance policy. at the same time, member states' administrations need to be modernised and eu rules simplified to reduce the number of irregularities. it is also necessary to work towards improving member states' detection and reporting practices and to introduce common criteria and guidelines for the objective interpretation of those reported.
in writing. ‒ member states and their authorities should continue their efforts and exchange best practices to ensure better coordination and assessment of abuse cases. in addition, attention should be paid to the importance of external assistance and control in the fight against irregularities and fraud. there should be a coherent european legal framework to protect the eu's financial interests. in this context, the eu's recently developed anti-fraud strategies are supported. irregularities, which are considered to be fraudulent, are often the result of a lack of knowledge of the rules or of procedures and regulations that are too complex. it is therefore necessary to provide training for the staff of the authorities involved in the management of the funds under the cohesion policy. efforts should also be made to simplify the existing rules. the european institutions and the member states could, in addition to the annual report on the eu's financial interests, carry out mid-term evaluations to check whether the new regulatory structure of cohesion policy is more effective in preventing irregularities and reducing the risk of them occurring. states could also assess the possibility of further simplifying the existing rules. particular attention should be paid to areas where there are many irregularities linked to fraud. in this regard, prevention education and capacity building are of paramount importance, both in the public administration, among stakeholders and civil society organisations. clear rules should be introduced and their effective application pursued, as they are the key to effective prevention of abuse.
in writing. ‒ montenegro has made considerable progress in bringing its political and economic system closer to eu standards, with 16 of the 36 negotiating chapters already open. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget for the period 2014-2020 and to provide a report on the implementation of the budget for the period 2014-2020. however, it should be borne in mind that the mere establishment of a law is not enough, it is necessary to implement it and to record concrete results on the ground. another key area from the point of view of eu standards is the guarantee of freedom of speech and the media and the resolute fight against the persecution of journalists. montenegro will need strong political will to bring about a change in this situation. we are making progress in this vital standard for the functioning of a democratic state, but we cannot yet say that the problem has been solved. an additional problem in montenegro is the dependence of the political world on business, which does not promote a proper perception of the real situation of citizens. the social problems include high unemployment at 19% and poverty among the employed. it is therefore necessary to combat social inequalities, to promote and develop the productive base, to take action to protect the environment and to improve the labour market. the situation of the disabled also needs to be further improved.
in writing. ‒ overall, the country has achieved a high level of alignment with the european acquis, but there are specific concerns about the politicization of state institutions. the political crisis, which is manifested in the escalation of the conflict between the government and the opposition parties, is a significant problem. it is therefore difficult to imagine further progress on the country's eu integration path without engaging in constructive internal political dialogue. it should also be borne in mind that before the ukrainian conflict, the last armed conflict took place in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in addition, the political crisis in the country may undermine the accession negotiations, which is why it is now so important to ensure the implementation of the march 2013 agreement. the long-term interests of the country require well-functioning institutions, which is not supported by the growing criticism from the opposition and political opponents who blame the government for further shortcomings. while the evidence surrounding the allegations cannot be ignored, one must also be aware of the country's complicated history. however, there is a credibility gap which requires the country to make appropriate binding declarations to improve it.
in writing. ‒ serbia is an important country in its region for its stability and there is a reasonable hope that it will live up to its expectations. the country is the main economy in the balkans and without its active participation, efforts to normalize relations in the region would be very difficult. in this context, assistance to serbia, for example in the context of flood damage repair, and possible cooperation in the field of energy and the promotion of renewable sources should also be considered. the establishment of such cooperation could benefit not only serbia but also its neighbours, while enhancing connectivity and energy security in the region. the process of change in serbia requires the opening of new chapters in the negotiation process with the eu, but the most important thing is to continue the reforms that have been initiated. despite the visible progress, it cannot be excluded that there will be disruptions, as in the case of the difficult initial period in the implementation of social reforms. the problem of abuse of power should also be addressed, but this will require the involvement and appropriate attitude of the state. the eu should also ensure that the changes taking place in serbia are made democratically and not under any pressure from third countries, and this freedom should be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it presents a more balanced approach to structural reforms and their impact on the programme countries. i welcome the commission's new approach to economic policy with a focus on growth and investment, but the reforms required of member states must be socially sustainable and growth-friendly.
in writing. ‒ it is a well-known fact that europe needs economic growth that can solve many of our problems. it's only recently that we've started to get up off our knees very slowly. the examples of ireland and spain show that fiscal consolidation and reform programmes are producing positive results. however, it should be borne in mind that several countries in the zone are still struggling with a lack of economic growth and poor economic prospects. the european semester was established in 2010 to improve economic coordination. but this collaboration is difficult. member states' economies and priorities differ, but this is a forum for common discussion. the biggest challenge now is to implement as quickly as possible the juncker investment plan, which aims to restore sustainable growth in europe. in addition, the structural reforms initiated should be continued. the fight against public debt continues to require special attention, as it is necessary to protect the still weak economic recovery. the priority now is tax reform. the eu's european single market must now focus on creating, among other things, a digital market and a common energy market.
in writing. ‒ for several years now, the european commission and the member states have been taking action to improve the situation on the eu labour market, including through recommendations and actions under the european semester. that is why i voted in favour of all three reports on economic issues, the labour market and the internal market. however, in the case of the report by sergio gutiérrez prieta, i voted against several provisions, including the proposal that investment expenditure should not be subject to the excessive deficit procedure and that social indicators should be treated on an equal footing with economic indicators. i believe that increased control of public finances should continue to be a priority to avoid repeating past mistakes. i would also like to draw attention to the remarks in mr prieta's report on so-called social dumping. the term 'social dumping' started to appear in a populist way in the eu-wide debate a few years ago. this is an undefined phenomenon and is incorrectly used in relation to competitiveness based on lower labour costs resulting from the provisions of the applicable union law. the maintenance of such a term in union legal acts is therefore inappropriate.
in writing. i voted against because i think it is obvious that the intention of the initiators was to get parliament's consent to control the content of the internet and to get parliament's consent to censor it. "the unusual treatment of children...is, in my opinion, only a false justification; a pretext given to deceive the consent of the members to the real and undisclosed intentions of the initiators.
in writing. the resolution on child sexual abuse online is a disguised authorisation by the european parliament for internet censorship. this means that the eu and national institutions could, under the pretext of checking 'hidden paedophile content', control and block the flow of any information between natural and legal persons. internet and hosting service providers, social media management companies, banking sector, etc. would be obliged to provide institutions/services with all information and content (even private correspondence and private bank transfers) and to block them, under the pretext of control, without the need for any court orders. the resolution as a whole, beyond the banal content and noble names, is only relevant to the content contained in paragraphs 15 and 17, cited above: 15. (...) to provide the law enforcement authorities of the member states and europol with the necessary funds, human resources, investigative powers and technical capabilities (...);17. (...) to exchange information between law enforcement authorities, judicial authorities, the ict industry, internet service providers, hosting service providers, social media management companies, the banking sector (...) in order to (...) swiftly remove illegal content from the internet (...); as a consequence, all online communication will be fully censored by eu and member state services. under the guise of a noble-sounding name, the resolution calls for total censorship of the internet.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. anna politkovskaya, alexander litvinenko, natalia estemirova and sergei magnitsky are a very small, small fraction of those who have been murdered in russia in the past few years in a covert manner or died in prison under strange circumstances. most recently, boris nemtsov. shot on a bridge near the kremlin wall, in an area (no one doubts this) closely watched by russian special services, if only for the protection of the russian authorities and their headquarters. is there any democracy in russia? in a country where (no doubt) there are no fair elections; in a country where the judiciary, despite the constitutional provisions, despite a number of constitutional guarantees also regarding the respect of civil rights, is in principle completely dependent on the authorities; in a country where propaganda is so extensive that it is difficult to find anywhere any reliable information about what is happening inside and outside this country, where independent media and ngos are suffocated, where the fear of opposing the authorities in any way; in a country where people who are the real opposition today must be called by us not ordinary politicians, as happens in democratic countries, just heroes (looking at these heroes, for example, that we can count on, russia) or in a country where they have to talk about how democracy really works every day, when they say democracy is dead? i think that russia today has nothing to do with democracy anymore. this is just a demonstration of how the russian constitution is being violated in a drastic way on a daily basis. this is evidenced by the fact that russia is a member of the council of europe and has signed all the relevant commitments, and we can all see how it is complying with them in its internal affairs. but this is not just a problem of russia's actions in the domestic sphere, it's also a problem of russia's actions in the external sphere. it is the first european state to have invaded another sovereign, independent european state by armed aggression, taking part of its territory. today vladimir putin says with satisfaction that he was the one who gave the secret order to take crimea a year ago, and yet a year ago he and russian politicians said they had nothing to do with it. but the green men turned out to be the russian army. today, russia and russian soldiers are denied direct involvement in what is happening in donetsk, in a war in which ukrainian citizens, including civilians, are being killed. will we hear in a year that it was russian soldiers who were officially sent there by the russian president? finally, the last point i would like to raise is the tragedy that took place five years ago in smolensk, where a plane crashed with the polish president on board and people of great importance in the sphere of polish social and political life. they're all dead. to date, no proper investigation has been carried out, and no wreckage has been returned to poland.
mr. chairman, please! how can the world be safe, how can we be safe, and how can russians themselves be safe, if communism and the communist past are still the object of public worship in russia? it's not just that this cult is taking place in red square in moscow. in the smallest cities of russia, there are monuments to lenin. dzerzhinsky, one of the greatest criminals in the history of mankind, is the patron of russian special services. stalin's imperialist policies are still publicly defended by the russian authorities. ladies and gentlemen! it is not only us who need to condemn communism, not only europe, although we need it too. it is needed by russia itself, it is needed by the russians and especially by those who suffered the most there.
mr. chairman, please! we bow our heads, we salute boris nemts, we pray for him, but above all we must answer the question of the source of this policy. it is clear to me that it is rooted in the hateful policies of president putin, who, as mr jurek said a moment ago, inherits the tradition of a communist state that has murdered political opponents. what should be our response? first, there is no double standard, we should always remind ourselves of freedom, of respect for international law. there was a double standard with russia and it should go away. we should have the courage to stand up to evil. finally, congressman etheridge asks if we shouldn't be more lenient with putin. no, the whole experience of european politics shows that only toughness prevents dictatorships, only toughness protects the security of our world - that is what margaret thatcher taught you and europe. and that's the kind of policy we should be pursuing.
boris nemtsov is one of the many victims of vladimir putin's bloody rule. it will soon be five years since the death of the polish elite, led by president lech kaczynski, who was killed on april 10, 2010 in russia, over smolensk, while flying to the 70th anniversary of the katyn massacre of polish officers. it is a scandal that the causes of this disaster are also being investigated by putin, and poland still has not recovered the black boxes and the wreckage of the t-154m plane, but is conducting an investigation based on copies of materials prepared by putin's russia. i would like to remind you that the european parliament is working on a second petition for a fair investigation into the causes of the smolensk tragedy, which has gathered almost a million signatures. ladies and gentlemen! the european union, through its inaction, is partly responsible for the deaths of the victims of putin's rule. it is high time that we take decisive action against a man who mocks and violates the most basic principles of the international legal order in front of the eyes of the whole world.
mr. chairman, please! i must say that listening to the speeches of many colleagues here, i have the impression that these are belated regrets. someone has been feeding this monster we're criticizing today for years. the murder of the german is just another escalation in the whole chain of events. the responses to these events, such as the aggression in georgia, have been inappropriate for many years. for many years, the union and many member states have been under illusions about the situation in russia, about the possibility of liberalising or modernising russia. i think that if we had been more decisive in this house, in other eu institutions and in many member states, perhaps we would not be in this situation today and we should not stop at words but think about what we can do to change the situation.
madam president! at a meeting of the ecr group, jean-claude juncker said before his election that he would like a strong eu, european component within nato. it seems that after the election, that concept is no longer relevant. i am concerned that the concept of a single european number in the common foreign and security policy is also becoming obsolete. we have the normandy format, the concert of powers. what will happen if we implement all the intentions that have been written in the framework of the common security and defence policy? is it possible that in response to hybrid warfare, we will have a hybrid command?
in writing. in the context of the report on foreign affairs and security policy, i fully agree with the rapporteur that we need a new european security strategy. this strategy must be based on the protection of human rights and fundamental values and include an educational dimension in the context of contemporary threats. similarly, european external action must be implemented in accordance with a comprehensive strategy, the main pillars of which should be investment in education as part of the eu's humanitarian policy, in addition to the protection of human rights. the future challenges for foreign policy also include reform of migration policy to prevent as much as possible the tragedies of illegal migrants trying to cross the union and to strengthen integration policy. we have also repeatedly called for humanitarian support for refugees and their host countries in urgent human rights resolutions. i consider this aspect to be crucial in the context of the protection of civilians and the maintenance of security and peace. i support the strengthening of regional protection programmes in cooperation with unhcr.
mr. chairman, please! the human rights report for each year is a very difficult task to formulate in a way that satisfies everyone. i would like to thank the author for the effort he has put into this report. 2013 is first of all the beginning of difficult changes in ukraine, it's the beginning of euromaidan, it's the first victims, 2013 is also a significant change after the beginning of the arab spring, but also the beginning of dramatic changes in the middle east, which also cause huge victims, because it's the beginning of the functioning of the islamic state, of the islamic militias, which also mean their path of activity with crimes. the slaughter of alawites at salamis, the attack on the historic christian city of malula in syria, the looting and burning of churches, forced conversions, and many other things. i would also like to point out the deteriorating situation of christians in this context on a world scale, but also of other religions. the middle east, north korea, and many regions of africa are places where it is estimated that 100 million christians experience persecution each year, and 170,000 are killed each year. that's what the high representative said. i would also like to point out that we are shocked by the events in the central african republic, mali, libya, sudan and nigeria, where human rights are being violated. and of course, we should emphasize the positive. the year 2013 marks the launch of the european endowment for democracy, or the next sakharov prize, which shows the important role of human rights.
mr. chairman, please! this report, which is supposed to be about respect for human rights, contains human rights-related language. for example, in paragraph 165 we have an attack on the will of entire societies, as expressed by the slovaks and croats in a referendum, which voted to defend the natural order of the family. moreover, ladies and gentlemen, this paragraph attacks the fact that such a referendum has even taken place. if we attack today the fact that whole nations have spoken in a referendum in defense of the rights and the natural structure of the family, how much more are individuals at risk of being attacked for the same. in the name of the so-called fight against homophobia. at this point, i have to remind you of what my homeland said when the sejm of the republic of poland, in its resolution of 23 june 2006, made it clear that, while identifying itself with the judeo-christian moral heritage of europe, it could not approve the introduction of concepts such as 'homophobia' into european union documents.
in writing. i regret that once again the discussion of human rights in the world leads to the introduction of sensitive issues such as abortion, gay marriage, reproductive and sexual rights, through the back door of parliamentary resolutions. it seems that some of my fellow members have forgotten the division of powers between the european union and the member states. the polish constitution clearly defines marriage as a union between a man and a woman. pressuring member states to legalise abortion or to change legislation on such important worldview issues is a blatant encroachment on their competences, breaking the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in eu treaty law. i would like to remind you that the role of the eu institutions is not to impose worldview but to respect the established law as laid down in the treaties. the report by mr panzery is in line with the christian values with which most of my countrymen identify. as a polish member of the european parliament, i am fulfilling my mandate at the will of our citizens, the vast majority of whom do not want the eu to interfere in worldview issues.
madam president! "simplicity is the stupidest side of stupidity", a great polish poet once said. i would like to ask you today why, in the face of such a great threat as international islamic terrorism, the european parliament today is showing itself to be extremely naive. the draft european parliament resolution on the union's relations with the league of arab states on cooperation in the fight against terrorism reads here quote the european parliament welcomes the memorandum of understanding between the union and the league of arab states, which gives this dialogue and cooperation a multilateral character. beautiful, but unfortunately empty words. the whole document is made up of the following phrases: parliament welcomes, it stresses the importance, it calls for cooperation, it re-emphasizes the importance, it strongly condemns, it calls for cooperation. this is the entire content of the document we're talking about today, which we're creating ourselves. is this our voice in the fight for european security? that's a very naive voice, you know. what is our vision for the eu and european security policy? in the midst of the bombs exploding, we try to find a quiet, peaceful place where we can calmly dig deeper into the problem. ladies and gentlemen! is this really all we can do to keep our continent safe?
madam president, after the holocaust experience, what is the background of modern anti-semitism and the new phenomenon of islamophobia? very often it is detached from reality. there is only a small real jewish community in poland now, but there are many examples of using negative attitudes oriented at people defined as hostile. the symbol of those negative emotions is related to the expression ‘jews’. but in many places in europe, the real jews are attacked. what is wrong with our culture that jews, and, in the near future, muslims can become the stereotype of personalised evil? the internet disseminates hate speech of all kinds; the texted and tweeted words are very often devoid of responsibility and identity. what do we need to do? firstly, we should react. the most dangerous response is social and political neutrality. secondly, we should be active witnesses of the incidents that occur and talk about them publicly. thirdly, with respect to freedom of expression, we should act using legal tools. fourthly, we need some campaigns, such as no hate speech. fifthly, we need educational programmes which will build freedom, respect and openness vis-à-vis the imposed spiral of violence. the danger is that when words turn into hate speech they begin to burn because of somebody’s idea of religion, race and ethnic origin or only because of personal background. we have to stop it. if we do not, let me use the metaphor: those hate words will burn people, as was the case in our history.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for this debate on the issue of sea bass. i have to confess that i really enjoyed this debate personally. i have another confession to make – maritime affairs would have been my preferred dossier but for someone from a landlocked country this is probably unrealistic. so anyway i also really appreciated this debate for personal reasons but, coming back to the issue of the sea bass, i think many of you have rightly underlined that action is indeed urgently required and the commission has initiated a set of measures as i have highlighted already in my earlier statement. while i sense nearly overall support for the sea bass measures mentioned, i also take note of the concerns some of you have expressed and i will convey them to my colleague karmenu vella.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative.– mr president, you held a very fruitful and comprehensive debate on the panzeri report yesterday. i am honoured to present to you now the eu priorities for the un human rights council in geneva, which resumed its work last week. this debate gives us the opportunity to publicly renew our commitment to a strong multilateral human rights system. the european union has been a staunch supporter of the human rights council from the very beginning, and over the years we have contributed to strengthening its capacity to address violations and to promote greater respect for human rights all over the world. for this reason, it was particularly important for the vice—president / high representative to participate in this high level segment last week. her presence in geneva, together with the eu special representative stavros lambrinidis, was meant to remind the world, but also ourselves, of the great importance which is accorded to human rights in eu foreign policy. she also wanted to give voice to the work that the eu does and which this house does to uphold human rights worldwide. the council is the place where the gravest human rights violations are publicly condemned and where new partnerships can be forged with countries from all regions to take resolute action to prevent and respond to human rights violations and abuses, and to fight discrimination and violence. unavoidably, the debate in geneva is very much focused on the many human rights crises resulting from ongoing conflict or fragility. your resolution refers to a number of them, and they correspond to the situations that the vice—president/high representative highlighted at the council last week. firstly, the eu condemns the serious deterioration of the human rights situation in ukraine, where the price paid by the civilian population is simply appalling – almost 6 000 people have been killed and twice as many have been injured – and where the tatar community in crimea is persecuted and journalists and the media are intimidated. together with partners, the eu strongly calls for an end to violations and abuses, for respecting international human rights and human rights law, for granting safe passage and for allowing the release of hostages and detained persons. the eu supports the work done by the un human rights monitoring mission in ukraine, which is documenting violations and will guarantee the accountability of those who have perpetrated them, and calls for unimpeded access to the mission to crimea. secondly, in syria, entire communities, women and children, are taken hostage both by a brutal regime and by ruthless terrorist groups who wage a war under the false pretence of protecting their religion. the eu supports the work of the commission of inquiry set up by the human rights council since we know from experience that restoring justice to the victims of atrocities is crucial to achieving sustainable peace and reconciliation. moreover, where impunity prevails, there we find disaffection and alienation – feelings which are exploited by extremists. the result is a spiral of violence and destruction which is difficult to control. this is why, when the time comes, we will support also the role of the icc in addressing these violations. third, finally let me mention south sudan, a country we will discuss afterwards and where the conflict spares no one, not even young children. here the eu urges the african union peace and security council to consider the report of the african union commission of inquiry. again, justice and accountability are vital elements in the reconciliation process for the country. human rights are not only violated in situations of conflict. the eu also deems it important to shed light on long—standing and grave human rights violations or accompany countries in transition to democracy. therefore, we again are a partner with japan to bring international attention to human rights in the democratic people’s republic of korea – a situation which the general assembly last december, on our initiative, recommended to the attention of the un security council with the request that it should consider a referral to the international criminal court. like you, we have not forgotten the situation in myanmar/burma where progress has been made indeed but where, at the same time, we continue to be concerned about the inter—communal violence towards the roghingya and by the situation in conflict-affected areas and by the possible adoption of legislation on the protection of race and religion. moreover, the european union continues to work to bring attention to the rights of children, who are our future but who are all too often the first victims of conflict or crisis. we are the long-standing sponsor of resolutions on the rights of the child, both in geneva and new york, and support in particular the protection of children from war, violence and abuse. last, but not least, let me mention the eu’s commitment to freedom of religion or belief on which we are going to table a resolution at this session. we have also just hosted, on tuesday 10 march 2015, a successful event with un special rapporteur bielefeldt on the timely subject of speaking out against acts of intolerance, discrimination and violence allegedly committed in the name of religion or belief. this is a complex phenomenon which requires a firm response by states, regional organisations, religious or belief communities, ngos and by media representatives. let me say in this respect that realising all human rights for all and fighting marginalisation, discrimination and intolerance is the european answer to radicalisation, violence and abuse. before closing let me mention three issues of particular importance to this house. firstly, as you rightly point out in your resolution, civil society representatives and human rights defenders experience harassment and imprisonment, threats and violence as well as restrictions on their activities in many countries around the world. the eu defends their space at the united nations and raises their plight in bilateral dialogues. we now go beyond traditional diplomatic or political tools, together with the high commissioner for human rights and the brazilian permanent mission to the united nations, the republic of korea and tunisia. in geneva we have just launched an innovative social media campaign called ‘#i defend’ making sure civil society has its voice. with this initiative we want to express support to, and solidarity with, human rights defenders and civil society representatives. secondly, we must lead by example. our collective commitment to the universal peer review or principal decision to cooperate with all special procedures of the united nations are extremely important for our credibility and for the credibility of the human rights council. this also means bringing human rights back home and vigorously working on our own shortcomings. in her speech in geneva the high representative has openly spoken about the challenge of migration and the eu’s commitment to better protect the human rights of migrants in the future through deeper cooperation among the eu member states and support for the work of the unhcr. third and finally, let me recall that the credibility of the un human rights systems rests primarily on the independence and integrity of the office of the high commissioner. we must defend this independence by supporting the office financially and by staving off attempts to place its activities under the scrutiny of member states. i would like to thank you for this debate and for the recommendations regarding the eu priorities.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank you very much for the many debates on human rights, particularly in this session. it's a big sign that this session is focused on these issues. we are not in a position to discuss all the elements, but i would like to emphasise that our debate follows the last foreign affairs council meeting on 9 february, which dealt with the priorities that the un council should address in the context of the 28th session. i wanted to thank commissioner hahn for presenting the council's progress on this matter. i am very positive about the priorities in this area and also stress my full support for the independence of the office of the high commissioner for human rights. among the many issues raised in the draft resolution, i would like to highlight the issue of the persecution of the weak in conflict areas - this concerns women, this concerns children, this also concerns the elderly - but also the issue of the persecution of minorities, including religious minorities. i would like to emphasize the dramatic situation regarding the persecution of christians, of other religions, as well as this humanitarian crisis in the neighbourhood.
in the context of the upcoming 28th session of the un human rights council, our parliament has tabled a joint resolution listing more than 20 issues, which are covered in a total of 69 points. the text focuses on the rights of women, children, indigenous peoples, but also carefully leans on the rights of so-called sexual minorities, or lgbti. there are many threats, but there is no separate paragraph in which our parliament condemns the persecution of christians in the world, and this is a very serious problem, because according to open doors christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. 100 million people in 50 countries are persecuted. drastic examples of their murder, such as the beheading of egyptian christians, have been shown recently in the context of the fight against islamic terrorism. in the resolution we have tabled, we mention christians only marginally, for example in relation to the situation in iraq and syria. but that is too little, i think, in the face of so much terror against christians all over the world.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the priorities of the union for the upcoming 28th session of the un human rights council as set out in the council conclusions. the joint resolution contains the most important human rights issues. as a member of the committee on education, culture and sport, i draw attention to the increasingly authoritarian practice of states organising major sporting or cultural events to increase their international legitimacy while continuing to impose constraints on their domestic political opponents. i therefore call on the european union and its member states to actively raise this issue, including at the un human rights council. it is essential to establish a dialogue with national sports federations and civil society organisations on the conditions and their participation in such events, including with regard to the first european games in baku in 2015 and the fifa world cup in russia in 2018.
this is not a question to your colleague.
mr. chairman, please! the safety and the life and the survival of christian communities should be not just the subject of our resolutions, but the essential premise of western policy in the middle east. if we're talking about the need for inclusive government in iraq today, one of the criteria for that inclusion should be the participation of the christian communities, the political representation of those communities in the iraqi government. and the iraqi authorities, whom we are supporting, should be expected to provide both military protection for christians where they are directly threatened and defensive measures for the christian groups who are now taking up the self-defence of the syrians and other christian communities living there. of course, all this does not relieve us of our direct responsibility to defend them in the international arena or directly.
i've already given the commissioner a vote. i'm very sorry, but i didn't have that information. i'm asking the commissioner to step down now. i'm sorry it had to come to this, but it's not really my fault.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on south sudan, including the recent kidnappings of children (2015/2603 ((rsp)).
i think this is an important appeal. thank you, mr. ambassador. thank you for your time. we do have to deal with these things sometimes. i'm very sorry about that, mr. ambassador.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. three months after the announcement of the dr medani resolution, sudan is once again the subject of lively debate in the european parliament. the recent events call for immediate action, as they affect above all those who are accorded special protection under international law. we're talking about children being taken from their home villages and forcibly conscripted into the army. according to unicef, boys as young as 12 years old may be active in combat on both sides of the conflict. it is disturbing that schools, which should be places of learning and education for the younger generation, are being turned into army recruiting points in sudan. children are the hope of every nation. sudan, which is currently in chaos, could become a place of political stability in the future. but for that to happen, we cannot allow these young people who will build the new order to be killed in the war now being waged in the name of the ideals of the older generation. i would like this resolution to have a broad resonance and to bring the world's attention to the problem of sudan. the european union, as a human rights defender, should stand up for those who cannot do so themselves. let's be clear, a child should be in school with a pencil in hand, not in the army with a rifle shoved over his shoulder.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on tanzania, in particular the issue of land grabbing (2015/2604 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the displacement of people, environmental migration is taking on a massive character in tanzania. most of the displacement observed affects the poorest and most marginalized members of the population. communities particularly affected by the consequences of illegal displacement are those without formal land rights. the lack of these rights is often the reason for the denial of compensation related to resettlement, which violates human rights standards. tanzania's weakness is that it lacks many legal acts. i condemn the illegal evictions of people, discrimination in property rights and violation of fundamental human rights related to the illegal land grabbing of the local community. the lack of transparent information on the number of investments in tanzania is a concern. i call on the tanzanian authorities to promote an agricultural policy that benefits the local population and to implement land ownership laws to protect this community. i stress the importance of adequate compensation in accordance with the real value of previously occupied or used land.
mr. chairman, please! land grabbing is a serious problem in many african countries, including tanzania. it is primarily about the loss of the rights of the local community to land, water and other natural resources. in recent years, there has been a new wave of large-scale land acquisitions, driven by the growing global demand for raw materials, agricultural products, biofuels and tourism. however, land acquisition does not guarantee development, for example most of the investments in biofuels between 2003 and 2008, for which 640 hectares were allocated, failed. in tanzania, 75% of the population are farmers, but only 10% of them have formal certificates of ownership of the land they cultivate. widespread corruption and abuse of power by politicians and government officials have resulted in the seizure of local farmland by foreign investors, and the forced migration of people who lack access to natural resources in search of food and water. the tanzanian government should support investments that benefit the local community, and we as the european union should pursue a policy of dialogue, trade and monitoring of european companies' operations in this part of the world, with a view to addressing local woes.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! for many years, both the european commission and the european parliament have been taking a number of initiatives to combat the sexual exploitation of children online. these activities are mainly focused on education and raising awareness of the public on how to use the internet safely and how to protect our children from risks, but also from irresponsible behavior on their part. statistics from recent years show that the problem is growing. this makes it very clear that we must take preventive measures first. it is only by educating children about the consequences of their actions and the dangers that lie ahead on the global web that we can reduce this phenomenon. this requires the involvement of parents, caregivers, and teachers. fortunately, some progress has been made in this regard over the years, and safer internet day has certainly helped. i would therefore like to thank all the people and organisations involved in organising this year's event. finally, i would like to express my outrage that almost half of the member states have not implemented the directive on combating the sexual exploitation of children online. it just shows how much this problem is being ignored in europe.
i thank the president for his humane and liberal approach to the matter, and i thank him for the opportunity to speak. i would say that the internet is like a knife: a knife can cut bread that is used for food, and it can also kill. i voted the way i did because i think that we need to show the bad side of the internet, that it is used for evil, often evil that can no longer be reversed. children especially should be under special protection. i think there are things in this parliament that connect - maybe there aren't that many - but this case should definitely connect. change is necessary: we need to move towards bigger, smarter restrictions, not to throw out the baby with the bathtub and to stifle freedom on the internet, but we need to act very decisively on this issue.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the assassination of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia is the first clear signal from the european union that it does not accept the policies of the president of the russian federation vladimir putin. the eu has so far failed to take effective action against a man who, in the eyes of the world, is breaking the basic rules of international law with impunity. it will soon be five years since the death of the polish elite, led by president lech kaczynski, who was killed on april 10, 2010 in russia over smolensk, while flying to the 70th anniversary of the katyn massacre of polish officers. i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains a provision on the need to return the black boxes and the wreckage of the polish tu-154. it is good that the ep has finally made such an appeal to the russian authorities. however, i regret that, by the votes of polish mps from the ruling party, the part of the paragraph on the need for an independent international inquiry was not included in the final text of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint text of the resolution because i believe that it is the duty of every european politician to condemn the brutal political murder of boris nemtsov. russia has now become a criminal dictatorship that resolves its internal and external problems by force. supporting democratic change in this country should be one of the eu's core responsibilities, and politicians like boris nemtsov - courageous opposition leaders and critics of vladimir putin's oppressive regime - should be at the centre of this interest. only through democratisation can russia become a reliable partner of the eu. in the face of the ongoing aggression against ukraine, which violates all principles of international law, any cooperation with the russian federation is impossible. the whole international community, including all eu member states, needs to put strong and united pressure on the russian authorities to stop their aggressive actions destabilising europe. the detention on the territory of the russian federation of the wreckage and black boxes of the tu-154 aircraft that crashed on 10 april 2010 near smolensk is particularly reprehensible. the corrupt, executive-dependent russian judiciary is unable to objectively and honestly explain the circumstances of this tragic event. only an international investigation into this case can pinpoint the perpetrators of the death of polish president lech kaczyński and the other victims.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the european union's foreign policy report calls on the european commission to monitor the strict enforcement of sanctions against russia, but it is a pity that so little is said about the russian embargo on the export of our food. russia is openly saying that it will apply the embargo selectively. in this situation, parliament should have clearly ruled out the use of the russian embargo on food exports to take over eastern markets by those countries which will be treated favourably by russia, to take over the markets of those countries which will be excluded from those markets by russia. the adoption of such a rule, which we obviously have to apply, is not just a requirement of solidarity, it is a requirement of ordinary decency. i wish we'd said something openly about it.
in writing. ‒ the high representative's annual report contains many important and well-defined objectives and measures to support a more effective internal policy of the union. i personally regard the report by mr broka as a well-prepared document, adequately addressing the current challenges to peace, security, respect for human rights, community values and the eu's fundamental economic interests. the resolution is geographically balanced, the union is not indifferent to important events and political developments on different continents, in particular the events in ukraine, the policy of russia and nato. the presence and participation of the high representative, ms mogherini, in the debate reinforces the value of this report.
this annual report was supposed to be about human rights, and it ended up being openly violated. this report openly calls for the legalization of prenatal infanticide, or abortion, in all countries of the european union. this is a blatant incitement against the right to life of the weakest, probably based on the belief that we will accept this, that we will not protest, that we will choose the path of european correctness. the very assumption that we would sacrifice the lives of our children for the sake of any political gain is an act of contempt for our countries. i would also like to point out that the european parliament has clearly violated the principle of subsidiarity. none of our countries has ever agreed to actions taken against the lives of our citizens. the sejm of the republic of poland made this clear 12 years ago, when the left was still in power in poland. i wish she had heard that voice from brussels.
mr. chairman, please! if we talk about human rights, let's remember that even those people who are just beginning to live, the unborn, also have the right to live. this is also a human right and i would like to remind the european parliament of this, and i voted against this report for a simple reason. i think it's a very narrow definition of human rights, and it doesn't include the unborn. i think that's really an unacceptable situation, because we talk a lot about human rights - it's good that we talk about them - but we don't want to include some categories of people in the category of human rights protection - the least of them. i think that this report is very ideological in nature and that it is really serving a project which often has little to do with human rights. hence my vote against. i think it is a good thing that there are many members in this house who voted against this report.
in writing. i regret that the european parliament has adopted the report by mr piero panzeri on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 and the european union (eu) policy in this context. it's another document that compromises christian values by promoting abortion and gay marriage. under eu treaty law and the eu charter of fundamental rights, the member states are responsible for worldview issues. i voted against this resolution because it interferes with the competence of the member states in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. i am firmly convinced that the eu should not impose on member states the definition of marriage. the role of the eu institutions is not to promote abortion or same-sex marriage, but to uphold the established law as laid down in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. democracy and human rights are fundamental values that play a crucial role in building a just and citizen-friendly state. the vast majority of people around the world are denied the rights that they are entitled to by virtue of the fact that they were born. the eu's role in promoting the highest democratic standards is invaluable. our experience, which has been shaped over centuries by painful conflicts and difficult transformations, should serve as an example for other regions of the world. but it is not acceptable that harmful ideological ideas are being smuggled under the guise of promoting human rights. it's about so-called sexual and reproductive rights, which is basically a form of promotion of the fight against unborn life. the promotion of contraception and abortion as tools for building a democratic and just world is a misunderstanding. it's a perversion of the basic mission of human rights, which is to protect the weak and the defenseless from the strong. we can't talk about democracy when it comes to taking a life. the promotion of same-sex marriage also constitutes a form of ideological influence that is detrimental to the european union's efforts to promote democratization and human rights in the world. it is the traditional family, where the views and roles of each member are respected, that is the guarantee for building a stable, secure and democratic society.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i actually learned from mrs grossetête whether there is an energy union, and she made it very clear that it is decarbonisation. this is one of the five pillars. the member called for a holistic and realistic approach. 9/10 of the european economy is based on coal. we cannot strike at something that is the basis of our economy, and in particular the basis of central europe. i'd like to know what you think about this. is decarbonisation, in your view, to be a dogmatic goal of the energy union, or is it something that can still be discussed?
mr. president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. i too join in mourning with the families of the victims of the bardo museum bombing in tunisia and the germanwings plane crash in france and with the nations to which those victims belonged. the energy union. i would indeed consider the council conclusions to be the first steps towards the energy union, if it were not for the rather clear description of the directions of development. and so on and so forth: decarbonization. this dogma is unacceptable from poland's point of view. clean coal technologies are being developed in scientific institutions around the world. it's easy to shut down an entire industry. it's much harder to rebuild that branch and the well-being of the people who have been tied to it for generations. secondly, both decarbonisation and the regional approach to the creation of a common energy market for my region of central and eastern europe are a mortal threat and - in fact - much less protective in terms of energy security than the current legal situation in the european union. the same applies to the confidentiality of contracts. i would like to remind you that it is to the former commissioner oettinger that we owe poland's better situation in energy relations with the russian federation than to any of the previous polish governments. and now i'm going to get to my subjects. i agree with the conclusions on tunisia and libya. i think that is the right direction to take, both in the council and in the commission. as regards russia and ukraine, the sanctions regime should be explicitly linked not to control of the eastern border, but should be linked to ukraine regaining control over its territory, including crimea. i would like to remind you that the situation in this area has actually deteriorated since september, i.e. since minsk i, and since february, i.e. minsk ii. and we should be thinking about how to increase those sanctions, not how to reduce them. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
blue-card answer.– i would like to reply. certainly for many years we have tried unsuccessfully to implement the lng terminal in poland. nobody knows why it is going so slowly. it should be much faster. it should contribute to the energy mix of poland and to the security of poland making us independent from russia. the same goes for shale gas possibilities. we have been engaged in many projects of this kind and unfortunately there are obstacles to this. energy efficiency and other resources are also possible.
mr president, let me pick up on a few of the conclusions and this time the glass is half full, rather than half empty. first, i want to commend the biological father of the energy union, president tusk, and the legal father – absent now – mr juncker, for the energy union chapter. it is a newly born baby, it needs care, but it is good that we have started on that road looking towards the master plan for energy union for our prosperity and security. key to the agreement in this part of the conclusions is the word ‘transparency’. it is obviously about gas contracts. we need to reinforce the european commission competence. imagine president juncker sitting opposite president putin, putin knowing everything about our gas contracts and juncker knowing nothing. it is grotesque. do we want to refuse to put our side on an equal footing with our partners who are sometimes opponents? russia sees our cards and we do not see theirs. the european commission has the right to know what moscow knows about our gas contracts. energy independence is also important and, as is regularly stressed, so is the question of sovereignty of our choices in foreign affairs, and we see dangerous cracks there, where the principle of solidarity of the member states is under threat. i want also to commend the european commission and president tusk for staying on course on russian sanctions. it is not a final legal decision but it is important that it is clearly linked to the complete implementation of the minsk agreement and not just the ceasefire.
in writing. the energy union project is nothing new. it's a collection of the regulations that we've had. it's an unsolvable equation with many unknowns. can priorities such as energy security, global competitiveness and climate protection be achieved without modifying the climate and energy package, which discriminates against certain countries (e.g. poland)? we need a better law, free from the usual lobbying, to guarantee energy security. security based on increased energy efficiency and the use of local energy sources is the only recipe for europe's recovery in global competitiveness. the real technical efficiency index, rather than the reduction in energy use as implied by the current directive, should become the main tool for achieving climate objectives. to this end, the energy use directive needs to be rewritten to take into account the physical representation of the efficiency of energy conversion and generation processes, transmission (efficient networks, pipelines and warehouses) and end use (building and utilities). in turn, the gross energy efficiency calculated for each member state should be calculated using the gdp of those countries (according to eurostat) at the beginning and end of the calculation period. the eu ets also needs to be improved, as the current system is inconsistent it does not take into account many factors, including the active influence of technical efficiency indicators in sectors and the contribution of used res to reducing the need to purchase allowances.
in writing. the european council and commission conclusions of 19 and 20 march 2015 cover a number of issues of relevance to the european union. firstly, they concern the energy union, which is undoubtedly an important element of the common policy of the member states. the european council rightly stressed the importance of speeding up infrastructure works, including the creation of links with peripheral regions, in order to build a secure internal energy market. the declaration also addresses the european semester, in which the european council raised a very important issue in the eu-us negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the ambitious objective of completing the ongoing negotiations on a comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreement by the end of the year was rightly emphasised. the last, and no less important, theme of the conclusions is the eu's external relations. the ongoing review of the european neighbourhood policy should certainly ensure a continued commitment to working with both the eu's eastern and southern partners to enhance cooperation on mobility, market opportunities and interconnections.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. although within the european union we have harmonised taxes, such as vat and excise duties, and non-harmonised taxes, such as corporate and personal income taxes, we are faced with very unfavourable developments in both areas of taxation. i would like to draw attention to just two points. vat evasion in most eu countries is already worth tens of billions of euros a year and is growing every year. moreover, there is a growing number of so-called 'carousel' crimes, which involve the duplication of invoices for the sale of goods or services between companies from different countries without any actual transactions being carried out, and on this basis evade vat. increasingly, member states are defending themselves against this so-called reverse vat fraud, but this distorts the very idea of this tax. in the area of income taxes, we have been dealing with major tax optimisation by large corporations with the participation of the luxembourg tax authorities. my country's budget for these optimizations has been losing about 4 billion a year. i hope that the automatic exchange of information proposed by the commission will cut this optimisation short.
madam president! the european union's motto is diversity, but in every area, i repeat, in every matter, we demand totalitarian uniformity. if my portuguese colleague complains that people are fleeing to the netherlands, then let them reduce taxes to a level lower than in the netherlands half of the dutch will come to portugal. it's very simple! the goal should be to force governments to compete for businesses, to compete to attract citizens, to attract individual entrepreneurs. unfortunately, i see that there is a totalitarian tendency in this room that everything must be uniform. that's why i think the european union must be destroyed.
madam president! avoiding taxes through various semi-legal and illegal methods costs our budgets a lot of money. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative and its proposal, which i believe is the first step towards regulating this area by exchanging mandatory information on tax rulings. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, ms kaili, for producing a balanced report. but there is one controversial topic that i want to say a few words about. in paragraph 25, the member proposes that the european commission consider introducing minimum rates of corporation tax in order to quote limit harmful tax competition between member states. i think it's a bad idea for a couple of reasons. first, member states are at different levels of economic development: some are able to offer very good business conditions, others simply do not have the means. this is infrastructure, public services, government administration. it is therefore not advisable to set minimum tax rates, simply because some countries may simply not be able to offer such services to businesses. and secondly, it's a political decision. depending on which party wins, that party decides on income distribution and tax policy. we shouldn't interfere with this democratic election process.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! conservative estimates suggest that member states lose billions of euros every year through tax avoidance. this reduces the budgetary resources needed to pursue an active policy of economic stimulus in times of crisis. however, the much bigger problem is that such actions undermine the rules of fair competition. the biggest losers from the widespread practice of tax avoidance or evasion are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are unable to negotiate tax exemptions. i am therefore grateful to the commission for taking action so quickly to curb unfair tax policies. the proposed changes are a good move, as transparency should be the basis for action by states in this area. the obligation on member states to provide regular information on individual tax interpretations is a good solution, as it will hamper the unfair practices of some governments. however, it is necessary to define those decisions precisely so that it is clear which decisions are to be notified. for one thing, we can expect some governments to try to circumvent these laws and continue to attract taxpayers. the commission's proposal to introduce a european tax identification number is also worth considering. it will undoubtedly facilitate the exchange of information between the tax administrations of the member states and will allow the identification of negative practices by individual companies to be made more rapidly.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i want to say that today's decision, which will be made (i am convinced) on macro-financial assistance, the next tranche for ukraine of 1.8 billion euros, is a decision not only important financially, it is a very important decision politically. ukraine is in dire need of support, its financial stability is at risk. ukraine is not a poor country, it is badly governed, it needs reforms, it is fighting a defensive war. it's already lost 25% of its economy and some of its territory. the war costs a lot. he's waging war and reforming at the same time. this is unprecedented in european history. what is needed is rapid and generous financial support. the war is bleeding ukraine, and without a financial transfusion and another ukraine, it won't survive. helping ukraine is a political imperative. the greatest gift to the russian aggressor would be to allow ukraine to go bankrupt. we can't let that happen!
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. ukraine is associated with the european union, and this should lead to a commitment by the community to support ukraine in its efforts to build an efficient and effective administration, to promote economic development and to restructure its industry. it is also important to reduce poverty and build a civil society. ukraine is fighting on many fronts now, including the worst, the military, but at the same time it has to make very costly socio-economic reforms. without the european union's help, it cannot meet these historic challenges. so in the name of international solidarity, we should support the task of providing financial support to our eastern neighbor.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. as vice-president of the european parliament responsible for eastern europe, i would like to thank the commissioner, the vice-president of the commission, for his contribution. i think you know the situation in this part of europe better than many other commissioners. better than your compatriot, piebalgs, who was in charge of energy policy and defended nord stream, which was a really bad idea. yes, ukraine needs help. please stop talking nonsense about some war we are fighting with russia: russia has invaded a country neighbouring the european union. that's the facts. economic aid is essential if we do not want ukraine, the ukrainian people to be pushed back towards moscow. ukraine simply deserves this help. and i wanted to emphasize that.
madam president! the ukrainian economy is in a state of severe crisis caused by long-standing structural problems, which have recently been exacerbated by the armed conflict. in the current situation, financial support for ukraine is essential, but it must go hand in hand with deep reforms. and the help that we are offering, the help from the european union, should be directed at strengthening the most vulnerable sectors of the ukrainian economy. these changes must address fiscal stabilisation, improving economic indicators, but also the fight against corruption, taxation, improving the financial sector and the business environment. and by focusing on these areas, the european union will certainly increase its contribution to alleviating the financial difficulties in ukraine and will also contribute to supporting the european union's objectives of promoting economic stability and development in ukraine, as well as broadening our understanding of the policies of our eastern neighbours. the most important element, however, is that our assistance reinforces the commitment of the ukrainian government to economic reform.
madam president, i fully support the draft decision to extend macro-financial assistance (mfa) to ukraine, and for a number of reasons. first, we should provide support to a neighbouring country which is struggling with a massive economic and humanitarian crisis and is the victim of outright military aggression from russia. this is not only our moral obligation, it is also a very sensible political decision because we are providing support to a pro-european, pro-reform and democratic government and, in this way, we contribute to our own security. second, the decision to extend mfa is a manifestation of our european solidarity. it is also a sign of our sense of responsibility for stability in the region. it is a sign of our willingness to play an important role in our neighbourhood. having said that, i have to call on the commission to make sure that the money is spent on support for the reform process and on state-building in ukraine because we have to make sure that this assistance benefits all the people of ukraine.
mr president, this new german law, the so—called milog, has been applied on a territorial scale and is contrary to certain eu laws. first of all, it is against article 56 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. secondly, it is against article 8 of the rome i regulation. thirdly, it is against article 1 of directive 96/71/ec concerning the posting of workers and it is against article 9 of regulation no 1072/2009 on common access to the international road haulage market. truck and bus drivers perform international carriage operations on german territory only on a temporary basis, so they are not workers posted in germany. these drivers remain employed by their own original employers, and international travel is a core feature of the work they conduct. i would therefore expect you, commissioner, not to promise us new laws; i would expect you to execute the laws which already exist. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. yes, i agree that they may lose their jobs, but one more brief explanation. it's not true that they earn 300 euros, as we heard. the salary of a driver, for example a polish driver, is made up of three factors: a fixed salary and this fixed salary is in the order of 500-600 euros per month, variable elements and this is 400-600 euros per month and the so-called daily allowance 45 euros per day for each day spent abroad. and that's a total of almost eight euro and fifty cents.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. here, mr liberadzki has presented provisions of the treaties, directives, which are simply incompatible with the new minimum wage rules in germany, for example the principle of freedom to provide services and the free movement of goods, which is clearly defined in the lisbon treaty, and the directive on posted workers. i think that we should all be asking the commissioner here today to give us a very clear position from the european commission, also in the context of the reply that has been sent to the european commission in recent weeks. just so we have a clear picture. in my opinion, minimum wage laws in germany violate all possible treaties and eu directives and we should maintain them as soon as possible. and ladies and gentlemen, there is one more thing that is very important in this context. in most member states, the right to a minimum wage is protected by national law, and it is therefore in no way acceptable for one member state, in this case germany, to impose its wage conditions on other member states. you should also note this. the european commission's role is therefore crucial. i hope that a clear position will soon be sent to the european parliament as to whether these rules are in breach of the treaties and that we here in the european parliament will monitor the matter so that these bad rules are simply suspended as soon as possible.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the definition of 'social dumping' has been used many times in this chamber. i've never seen that definition in economics, and i've never seen an entrepreneur who provides services below the cost of doing so. i would like to ask you about the definition of 'social dumping'.
commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. we have heard many times in this house the slogans of european solidarity and the cheers of european integration. we boast about the achievements of the single market and we chase down the violations of the economic freedoms that are the foundation of the european union. but when it comes to a specific case of a breach of eu law by one of the member states, we have to wait for the european commission to react. the german government's minimum wage regulations are undoubtedly based on good reasons: we all agree that a decent wage for a job is a non-negotiable. however, the scope of these provisions and the fact that they also cover transport workers from other countries, instead of helping to protect workers' rights, is detrimental to the industry. they affect the freedom to provide services and directly affect transport companies, including those from poland, but not only, which will not result in increases but in redundancies. the adoption of these rules is an attack on free competition and the market position that, thanks to good organisation and solid work, polish and carriers in europe have gained. um gut verstanden zu werden, besonders von unseren deutschen freunden, sage ich es auf deutsch: "i am well understood to be german, especially by our german friends, but i am also well understood to be german". the commission will examine them and, as soon as possible, explain the new german law on contracts. it must be an unequivocal signal to the other member states that the commission's infringements cannot be accepted.
mr. chairman, please! today, instead of discussing rational solutions in accordance with the overriding provisions of the treaties, we are basing our debate on the undefined concept of social dumping, which is the pretext for introducing protectionist legislation that violates the fundamental principle of freedom to provide services and provides for disproportionately high penalties and administrative burdens for carriers from other countries in any situation: transit, international transport or cabotage. i would point out that a competitive advantage based on lower labour costs, organisational efficiency and labour productivity cannot be equated with social dumping. we know that lower labour costs are due, among other things, to differences in the level of economic development of individual countries, but also to differences in social security systems, in the level of contributions paid by companies. therefore, there is no social dumping, as no company can afford to operate below cost. today, none of us is questioning the right of any member state to introduce a minimum wage in its own country. however, the problem is the scope of application of the rules on that salary to persons employed in other member states and its compatibility with the freedom to provide services in the internal market. in view of the chaos and legal uncertainty created by the recent german legislation, we are today asking the european commission for a clear and unambiguous answer: to what extent should the german national law on minimum wages be applied to foreign transport operators, while not conflicting with european union law and the national law of the other member states.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the solutions introduced by germany are a blow to the transport industry in poland and other countries of central and eastern europe, they are a threat to the development of our companies and they mean the elimination of jobs. you have to say it to yourself very clearly and loudly. they are setting a dangerous precedent, because if we allow these regulations to be enforced today, they could be enforced tomorrow in other industries and in other countries, by other countries in the european union. a new era of protectionism will begin, and that means the end of free trade, free markets, economic freedoms and the free movement of labour within the european union. the foundations of the european union will then lie in ruins. in poland, polish transport companies have been building their position on the european market for years, and many companies have not been able to withstand this competition. we were competing with carriers from other countries, building a modern transport fleet. today, almost 39% of all cargo transported from poland was delivered to germany. we cannot allow this effort to be derailed by one administrative decision. we demand respect for european union law and free markets and we demand clear rules. and let us not allow that under the pretext of concern for the working conditions of drivers in other countries, germany actually eliminates competition for its own transport companies. that's what protectionism is!
madam president! i was going to say that there are over 30% women in this room, and you voted for 7 men in the "catch the eye" procedure. i feel discriminated against as a woman.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the debate is about the impact of the new minimum wage law in germany, which is expected to have an unexpected eu-wide effect. in my view, such an interpretation of german law is contrary to european union law, in particular the principle of free movement of persons, goods and services. this debate has not only legal aspects, but also social aspects. the other countries' hauliers will have two choices, both of which are unfavourable: either they will break german law and pay drivers according to the rates of their country of origin, which could lead to heavy fines, or they will pay according to german rates, which could even lead to the bankruptcy of some companies and the loss of hundreds of jobs in europe. companies cannot afford to operate below cost. the differences in economic levels between countries are obvious and do not ease up in a few years. it is therefore not possible to 'level off' rates at the expense of others, which is intended to eliminate cheaper competition from the market. we ask the commission to give a clear and prompt answer as to the extent to which german national law on the minimum wage can or should not be applied to foreign hauliers.
in writing. i am deeply concerned by the actions of some countries and their attempt to legislate a minimum wage for foreign workers providing transport services on their territory. i believe that this action is contrary to one of the fundamental principles of the union, which is the principle of the free movement of services, which is a pillar of the single market. drivers from countries such as poland are competitive on the european market not only because their labour costs are lower, but also because of their good work organisation and productivity, which is by no means a sign of 'social dumping'. of course, drivers, like all other workers, are subject to labor laws. i would point out that a number of rules have been established in all the member states, concerning, among other things, driving time, working and rest periods and the use of tachographs, which are designed to protect workers' social welfare. these regulations are largely harmonized and must, of course, be observed by all. the possible application of the minimum wage would, in my view, not only be incompatible with the principle of freedom to provide services, but would also cause a great deal of damage to businesses and workers in a sector which employs 5 million people. i therefore hope that the commission will quickly resolve any legal doubts raised by these provisions.
in writing. i disagree with the arguments raised in the discussion, which refer to the use of social dumping by workers and companies coming mainly from central and eastern european countries. a competitive advantage linked to lower labour costs resulting from differences in the economic development of the countries cannot be equated with social dumping. polish workers, not only those in the transport sector, by providing services at lower prices, but not below costs, contribute to the development of the economies of the countries in which they provide services. no one questions the right of member states to introduce a minimum wage - many countries, including poland, have long since introduced it - but it must not undermine the freedoms that underpin european integration. the provisions of the teu must be respected and established national law must not be in conflict with them. it is therefore important that the commission expresses its opinion as soon as possible on the compatibility of the german interpretation with the european interpretation. the application of the territorial principle by germany, the enforcement of german minimum wage rates with unparalleled wage systems, the translation of all relevant documents, new and unclear administrative burdens on transport operations of all kinds carried out on german territory (transit, international transport, cabotage) undermine the principles of integration and the european internal market, restrict the freedom to provide services, and call into question the very essence of the functioning of the eu.
in writing. 1.why does the commission not give a clear answer as to whether the minimum wage rules in germany are in line with the eu rules and the treaty or not? 2.in my view, they are incompatible not only with eu law but also with its overriding principle of a competitive common market. instead of creating jobs, they destroy them. competitive advantage, which is based on lower labour costs, organisational efficiency and labour productivity, cannot be equated with 'social dumping'. 4. each member state has a different minimum wage, different wage components and other costs, on the basis of which german legislation is to apply to economic operators from other countries. not to mention that these rules increase the administrative and bureaucratic burden and can be the basis for thousands of disproportionate fines, and constitute a barrier to the freedom to provide services in international transport.
in writing. since 1 january 2015, a minimum wage has been introduced in germany. in poland, this will affect the lives of 26 000 employees of companies providing international transport services with 145 000 cars. these companies, concerned about the quality of service and the working conditions of their drivers, take out loans to buy modern cars. the number of new cars registered in poland in 2012, mainly german, french, scandinavian and italian production, was as high as 14 thousand. the new rate will place a significant financial burden, including administrative and translation costs, on polish transport companies, which will threaten their existence and lead to unemployment of their employees. it will also cause losses to the factories of cars produced in eu countries, bought by polish companies. the regulations are in conflict with european union law, in particular they do not take into account article 45 teu on the free movement of workers. nor do they take account of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in luxembourg (18 september 2014, c-549/13), which concluded: 'in a situation such as that in the main proceedings, where a tenderer intends to perform a public contract by using only the staff of a subcontractor established in a member state other than that of the contracting authority, article 56 tfeu precludes the application of the provisions of the member state of that contracting authority requiring that subcontractor to pay the minimum wage laid down by those provisions to the staff concerned.'
in writing. the adoption by germany of a minimum wage in the transport sector has a fundamental impact on the functioning of transport companies in europe, including in poland. it must be borne in mind that the lower labour costs are mainly due to differences in the level of development of the various eu countries. the entrepreneurs, taking advantage of this advantage, contribute to the economic development of their countries and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. in my opinion, the german government's decisions could lead to the collapse of many airlines, causing colossal financial and social problems. a major argument against adopting a minimum wage of eur 8,5 per hour is that this decision is contrary to eu standards, in particular the directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. the principle of freedom to provide services as the basis of the internal market has been breached. the different types of transport services provided are not taken into account, thereby detaching decisions from the facts. i therefore call on the european commission to examine urgently the compatibility of the german minimum wage law with eu law. it is not clear to what extent the law of a member state of the union on the minimum wage should be applied to foreign hauliers in order to avoid conflicts with eu law and the law of other member states. a rapid analysis of this could save thousands of carriers from bankruptcy.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the roma holocaust claimed more than 500,000 lives. in the nazi death camps, roma were murdered en masse, starved, gassed. today they lie in unmarked graves in unknown places, without flowers, without wreaths, without honors from the authorities and from those who survived. recognising the roma holocaust is our moral duty, the first duty we should do as a parliament, and an important step in building roma identity and in building new relations between roma and non-roma. the polish sejm recognized the genocide of roma in 2011, establishing august 2 as the day of remembrance of the holocaust of roma and sinti. every year in auschwitz-birkenau, the nazi concentration camp where 5,000 roma were murdered, including 3,000 in one night during the liquidation of the gypsy camp, official ceremonies are held. they are organised by roma organisations with the participation of the state authorities. the polish government's multi-million pln roma programme is one of the best in europe, but it is far from adequate, because roma still live in very high poverty, there is a high level of unemployment and homelessness and all this is coupled with inadequate education, sometimes statelessness, and a vicious cycle of poverty and discrimination is created, which we must break. i believe that the key to these better actions is education, both for roma children and adults, and working with roma assistants and people who will build bridges between the roma and non-roma communities.
madam president! the italian online newspaper quotidiano nazionale has committed a scandalous violation of the freedom of religion and the rights of millions of christians who believe in the sacramental nature of confession catholics, orthodox and others. catholic priests were recorded giving the sacrament of confession in good faith. respect for the inviolability of confession has always been a part of all the civilised legislation of european countries, and on the other hand, the violation and disrespect of the sacrament of confession, eavesdropping, was a sign of totalitarian states and brutal violence. if we tolerate this practice, we will be infringing on the rights of millions of people, and unfortunately, let's note this: in the current crisis of religion, the people who use confession, although there are many in europe, are very often minorities in individual european countries. we will be infringing on the rights of millions of people who want to live their spiritual lives in peace, breaking the trust in the most personal of acts. the response to this scandal will be a measure of respect for christian life and the rights of these people. i call for a swift response from the authorities of the italian republic.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i fully support the macro-financial assistance project for ukraine and welcome the outcome of the vote. the decision to provide €1.8 billion in aid to our eastern neighbour is the largest financial package ever granted by the eu to any third country. but this is not as important as the political message of the union's aid. ukraine is badly governed, needs reforms, poverty reduction, building a civil society and above all fighting corruption and oligarchic structures. ukraine has already lost 25% of its economy and part of its territory, which is why the promise of eu membership is so important for the country to have reasons for its reforms. by focusing on these areas, the eu is helping to strengthen the ukrainian government's commitment to economic reform. in this way we also promote pro-european and pro-democratic forces, which will lead to strengthening and our security. time is of the essence here. ukraine's most pressing needs are already this year and two of the three tranches proposed will be issued later this year, including the first one before the holidays. the bankruptcy of ukraine would mean victory for the aggressor. without help, the eu cannot meet its historic challenges. europe is standing by ukraine. we believe in her rapid stabilization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the macroeconomic assistance programme for ukraine, as the european union should take part of the responsibility for stabilising the situation in that country. of course, we cannot solve all the problems of the government in kiev, but we can offer it help that will at least partially allow the ukrainian economy to catch its breath. russian aggression continues, and its price is rising every day. we europeans were the inspiration for the change in ukraine. now that the first wave of enthusiasm has been followed by a difficult moment and a doubt about the direction of change, we cannot look away. ukraine is facing changes and reforms that will be costly. fighting corruption and building an effective state apparatus will require investment in education and the judiciary. if this process is successful, we will have a stable and reliable partner who shares our democratic values in a very unstable region of europe. this is a very worthwhile prospect, and certainly worth the funds we are now offering ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on taxation. tax policy, by safeguarding our revenue base, is an essential part of fiscal stability. urgent, coordinated and coherent action is needed to eliminate tax evasion, tax fraud and tax avoidance, and to combat aggressive tax planning and tax havens, using a common approach that should be implemented not only at european but also at global level. the promotion of effective tax coordination should be the main instrument for shaping tax policies that stimulate growth, employment and investment. this is important to maintain transparent and fair tax competition between member states, which is favourable to growth and employment. effective, efficient and sound national tax policies require the proper functioning of national tax authorities. it is also important to exchange information between national tax authorities on best practices in order to learn from each other. tax policy is essential not only for the social security of families and households, but also for competitiveness and job creation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is now nearly a year and a half since the union's financial perspective for 2014-2020 was adopted, and it appears that many of the operational programmes in the area of cohesion policy, regional development or agricultural policy prepared by the member states are only at the stage of being approved by the european commission. the delays caused by this concern more than 300 operational programmes in all member states and therefore it is necessary to reprogram the current financial perspective for the following years. hence the need to revise both the mff and, consequently, to prepare amending budget no 2 for 2015, which will allow the transfer of over eur 21 billion in commitments from 2014 to the 2015 budget. this will allow for the implementation of expenditure in the years 2016-2020. i would also like to express the hope that there will now be a clear acceleration in the implementation of the programmes and that the mid-term review of the financial framework, which will take place in 2016, will not lead to cuts in expenditure in the individual national envelopes.
mr. chairman, please! we have discussed this question of transferring funds from one budget line to another very often in the budget committee and we have always treated it as if it were a technical matter. however, it must be brought to the attention of the house that this is not the case, that this is a very serious constitutional issue. we start from the mistaken assumption that a large budget of the union is a big benefit for the countries of the european union, but this assumption is wrong, because after all, a large budget of the union is a cost imposed on the countries of the union, and we must not forget this. if the appropriations in a budget line are not used and nothing bad happens, then it is obvious that they should go into the budget reserve and in the future should automatically reduce the union budget, reduce the burden that the union is for all countries. a cheaper union is a better union, and we should realise that.
mr. chairman, please! i have mixed feelings about this amendment and the recommendation we're about to make. on the one hand i'm glad we're not losing money because we're doing it at the last minute may 1st is the deadline but on the other hand i'm worried that this kind of situation is happening at all. we should try to understand where it came from. and on the one hand, the question to mrs georgievej: to what extent has the change in the commission contributed to this? what did you find on your desk? is the commission to blame? because the change of commission was a fact, that may be a partial justification, but only a partial one. the second question is: to what extent should we blame the member states for the delays? are member states still burdened with the implementation of the 2007-2013 backlog and is it therefore the implementation of the 2014 commitments that is so far behind us? it's worth making some judgments here. commissioner georgievej: after years of experience, decades of experience, perhaps it would be worthwhile to think about simplification, especially in relation to those countries where we have good experience?
in writing. at 31 december 2014, more than 300 operational programmes in the member states were still pending. however, with the new year these countries could not use the carry-over procedure provided for in article 13 of the financial regulation. we are talking about 21 billion euros that could have been lost forever without this revision. in some countries, this was even the majority of the commitment appropriations under these programmes: in the czech republic, it was 99.6%, in romania, 80%, in spain, over 60%, and in the united kingdom, over 50%. now it is necessary to make good use of the 21 billion euros that were transferred from the previous year. however, this requires revision of the amending budget no 2 for 2015, which will ultimately allow for the implementation of expenditure in the years 2016-2020. we are at an important stage in the process of starting the current programming period, so we must be particularly careful, as any delay could have serious consequences for the implementation of investments in the regions and for citizens. the national authorities must cooperate in order to take over the remaining operational programmes in due time and to start financing them. the commission and the member states should take account of these delays and their priority in order to avoid similar situations in the future. so we have a chance not only for a technical revision, but also for a historical political revision.
in writing. the european structural and investment funds are undoubtedly the most important instrument of the european union's investment policy. it is therefore a matter of priority to take appropriate action to ensure that all resources allocated to the projects concerned are used as timely as possible and as effectively as possible in order to stimulate economic growth and employment. the new programming period has already been marked by significant delays, due to the late adoption of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy regulations, and it is therefore all the more important to ensure that there are no further slowdowns or losses. the adoption of the changes is a necessary step in the process of finalising the process leading to the start of the new cohesion policy programming period without any negative consequences for the regions or cities and, consequently, for the european citizens themselves. it is important that the commission cooperates with the member states as well as the regions to implement the programmes in an effective and diligent manner in order to achieve the full and efficient use of all the resources available for this purpose.
mr. chairman, please! when i say the holocaust, everybody knows what i mean. hitler's germany murdered hundreds of thousands of its own fellow citizens of jewish origin, millions of citizens of other countries, almost 3 million citizens of poland, my country. 75 years ago, or not so long ago, when this parliament was composed of elderly members, it was unthinkable that anyone would walk through the streets of frankfurt wearing a yarmulke. yesterday at frankfurt airport i saw jews not only in yarmulkes, but also in huts, and in hats, with dogs. they weren't afraid. the german staff treated them just like everyone else. it's different when we talk about armenians. a century ago, the turkish state, which no longer exists, initiated a pogrom against the armenians. over one and a half million armenians were exterminated. there's no doubt about it, just a difference of interpretation. armenians talk about genocide, our turkish friends talk about events. the result is that the border between armenia, our eastern partnership country, and turkey, the newly established republic of turkey, now nearly a century old and a candidate country for the european union, is closed. is it possible that the republic of turkey, which has been separating itself from the ottoman empire to such an extent that it has even changed its alphabet, in this case, has felt itself part of the ottoman legacy? i wish the turks and armenians an open border and mutual cooperation and membership of the european union. let the armenians in ankara be welcomed like this... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! yes, the armenian massacre was the first genocide of the 20th century. for those of us in this room, for most of us, it's obvious in the light of the sources, in the light of the historians' research. but it's not obvious, it's not easy to confess to major crimes, and turkey is no exception. russia - i remind you - still has a problem with the appropriate attitude to the massacre of defenseless prisoners - 21 thousand polish officers and other people shot, among others, in katyn. the truth about this genocidal crime was also hidden for political reasons by poland's world war ii allies, great britain and the united states. even germany, which is often held up as a model for dealing with the past, still has a long way to go. the greatest crime committed against the civilian population during the second world war and the massacre of ninety thousand inhabitants of the warsaw district of wola in the first days of the warsaw uprising in august 1944 are examples. to this day, this massacre is completely unknown to germans and europeans, and i'm sure my colleagues have never heard of it. so it's no surprise that turkey is resisting. the more we must work to break this resistance, the more so because the only way to ensure that turkey and armenia have lasting friendly relations is to establish historical truth.
mr. chairman, please! for years, there has been a conspiracy of silence over these events, and the turkish authorities have not yet accepted responsibility for the crimes committed. worse still, not all countries have officially recognized the armenian genocide, and in turkey itself, those who fight denial of the massacre face penalties under the penal code for insulting the turkish nation. we can't let tragedies like this happen again. let us learn from our shared history and learn to solve the problems of today's world diplomatically. this is especially important in our times, when we face increasing xenophobia, hatred, and terrorism or religious fanaticism. all the more so, then, should we pay attention to these events as reminders that world history is full of such ungodly events. and today, especially here, in this place, we must remember that.
mr. chairman, please! it is the basic duty of civilized people to call genocide genocide. in the case of the armenian genocide, we pay tribute to the victims and make a warning for the future. i want to say very clearly: the truth cannot be censored, the international community must remember all acts of genocide: the armenian genocide, the genocide committed by the germans in auschwitz, the soviet genocide in katyn and in the mass concentration camps, and finally the acts of genocide in our time that present a fatal witness to modern civilization: the genocide in the balkans and in africa. poland has a special right to demand the truth on this issue. our lawyer, a polish jew, mr. lemkin, has defined the legal category of genocide. the truth cannot be censored.
in writing. on the occasion of the upcoming 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, i pay tribute to all the victims and their families. this year also marks the 75th anniversary of the katyn massacre of polish officers by the nkvd, the truth of which was similarly concealed and denied for many years. more and more national parliaments are passing resolutions recognizing the crime committed against armenians by the ottoman empire as genocide, but there is still no complete agreement on what happened in armenia a century ago. this is evidenced by the turkish authorities' reaction to pope francis' speech in which the holy father unequivocally called the massacre genocide. reconciliation and the building of a future together must be based on truth and dialogue. the statement by turkish president erdogan and prime minister davutoglu, in which they offered condolences for the atrocities committed against armenians, is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. the 100th anniversary of this terrible murder is a good opportunity for the turkish authorities to continue their efforts to promote reconciliation by opening their archives and recognizing the crimes against the armenians as genocide. turkey aspires to be a member of the european union, which means a commitment to european standards. without the recognition of the armenian crime, the turkish authorities' declarations remain only empty words. the european parliament has consistently reminded the turkish authorities of this in every resolution on eu-turkey relations.
madam president! the european union is a party to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, but it is equally important that all member states, as well as the union, are parties to the optional protocol establishing a mandatory complaint mechanism to allow individual complaints to be lodged. the administration of the european parliament insists that it ensures equal opportunities for disabled people, but is this really the case? parliament grants employment for a period of five months only to disabled people without a university degree. it's a very short time. in 2014, the european parliament employed only 13 disabled trainees and 7 disabled contract staff. how does this relate to the overall proportion of disabled people in the union? one in six of the european union's citizens is disabled, 80 million people, and here we are dealing with such small amounts. these are outrageously low amounts and they need to be changed. it is also necessary to allow access to the buildings for disabled people, to allow disabled people to function normally here in the european parliament, both staff and potential staff, citizens of the european union and members of the european parliament.
madam president! if, of course, this were a theory, if all the disabled in the european union were a single nation, it would be the largest nation in our union. of course, i'm talking about the scale of the phenomenon. we're not talking about someone outside, we're talking about ourselves, we're talking about our families. it is not a problem outside, but a problem that exists also inside this parliament and our societies. i have the impression that there is a 'couple of whistles', that there is a certain actionism, and there is no systematic activity aimed at increasing the participation of disabled people in work, but also, for example, when it comes to young people with disabilities in universities. and that's the issue for us, i think, is the key. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you for your question, mr. ambassador. i don't dare to judge the governments of other countries, because perhaps the government of my country also has certain sins of omission, to speak in theological language. and i think that the level of civilization of a society, a nation, and a power is determined by its attitude to, first, the elderly and the disabled, and second, the disabled and the otherwise able. and i think that there's no saving here, because, frankly, it's just not humane.
madam president! i am very glad that we are debating the disability allowance today and that we have started this subject by analysing and assessing the situation within the european commission itself, because such self-assessment by the office which is the law is, and almost always is, very instructive and opens up certain aspects of the matter which might have been invisible before. the polish example confirms this. in poland, we already introduced the hard sanctions a few years ago. any company that employs at least 25 people must employ at least 6% of disabled people, and the financial penalties are very high. we have checked all central offices and also local governments in terms of how they are managing to implement this amount and it turns out that almost no public or private institution is able to achieve this amount despite a sincere desire. as far as central offices are concerned, it is extremely rare for people with disabilities to apply for competitions. so it is clear that the amounts which are a very necessary tool to influence this equality policy are insufficient in this area and we need a comprehensive policy, a good diagnosis of the causes, the barriers that arise in the market, to build these amounts into the right policy so that we are effective in integrating people with disabilities into the labour market. i hope that the european commission will monitor itself and the other institutions in this respect, because we need such pressure and motivation to implement policy effectively in this area. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. the member of parliament has presented some very interesting solutions that are working in our country, while pointing out that disabled people also do not come to work as often as we would like. so i would ask you to indicate what positive actions you think could be taken to encourage disabled people, to show them that there are jobs, that we are waiting for them?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. in poland, the reasons for this are clearly rooted in the education system. we need more access to education at all levels for people with disabilities. first of all, we need people who are individual assistants and help achieve specific educational goals, but first of all, we need institutions, offices and companies to work with ngos that specialize in bringing people with disabilities into the workforce. there are examples of this, also in poland, they are very effective, but there are simply not enough of them and we have a rare network of this kind of cooperation, and it would be very necessary.
madam president! the information provided by the commissioner shows that there is no discrimination against disabled people in employment in the eu institutions. but at the same time, the same data shows that we should and we must talk about a big disparity, about too few people with disabilities working in these institutions. i am very pleased with the commissioner's strong determination to change this situation and i am convinced - as many of my predecessors were - that the parity mechanism would greatly consolidate this determination and would be one of the tools that could be used to improve the current situation. but also, aside from these rule changes, i'd like to ask what challenges are you facing yourself as commissioner? what parity or rather what objective do you envisage for measures to increase the participation of disabled workers in the eu institutions in the next say four years, after carrying out studies similar to those on which the data you have provided us is based?
thank you very much, commissioner. i thank you not only for what you have said but also for taking the european parliament seriously. this is another speech, not a two-minute speech like the other commissioners, but a longer, serious, substantive speech. thank you for that. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the activation and employment of people with disabilities remains a major challenge for member states' social policies. in addition, the ageing of the population means that more people, including workers, will have to deal with health problems. people with disabilities face many barriers to integration into the labour market. these are not only physical, legal, but also mental barriers. however, condemning people who are able to work to often long-term unemployment is not only disadvantageous for those people but also for public finances because of the long-term burden on social security systems. the employment-based schemes for disabled people in many member states seem to be failing. much better results are achieved through incentives for employers, information campaigns, and well-prepared workplaces and flexible and innovative forms of employment. the european commission, but also other european institutions, should set an example and be a source of good practice in showing how to employ people with disabilities for the benefit of both employer and employee. this also requires basic statistical data to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken. i hope that the commission will make every effort to collect such data, of course in compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the envisaged eu-mexico pnr agreement (2015/2653 ((rsp)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. i agree with my predecessor that the threat of imposing penalties on european carriers is simply a denial of the principle of negotiation. i would also like to ask the rapporteur whether, if such sanctions were to be imposed, the european union should impose economic and political sanctions on mexico.
mr president, mexico is only one example of countries that are introducing legislation regulating pnr collection. like other members of this parliament, i also asked the commission what the plans to deal with each situation are, so i know that mexico, russia, south korea, japan, brazil, qatar, saudi arabia, united arab emirates, israel, indonesia and argentina at least have asked, or intend to ask, for pnr data. the commission answered that while waiting for the court of justice decision on the agreement with canada, it is up to member states and national data protection authorities to assess the conditions and decide on what passenger data their air carriers can lawfully transfer to a third country. i understand that you are waiting, and i believe that the eu solution is very necessary. without the eu solution we risk that eu citizens will either have no appropriate guarantees for their personal data, or we risk that fines will negatively influence ticket prices and airlines. we need this solution first of all because of security reasons, so we need the agreement with mexico, but not only with mexico – it is important to have a much broader solution due to law, due to decisions of the court, oriented on security goals and the rules for data protection. that is why i believe that the eu solution is needed and i wanted to ask the commission what, apart from the solution with mexico, are the different possibilities for such an eu solution?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to one particular circumstance. of course, we will wait for the european court of justice to decide, but the question of respecting our standards is not just about what kind of data can be transferred out, but also to whom can it be transferred? there is no doubt that, with 200 countries in the world, not all of them are able to meet the kind of standards that we want to maintain here. the transmission of the same type of data to different countries may therefore be justified in one case and unjustified in another. in this case, we're dealing with mexico, and we have serious doubts about how this data will be used. therefore, if the european court of justice finds, for example, that certain types of data can be transferred to canada, it does not mean that the same type of data should be transferred to mexico or similar countries.
thank you very much, commissioner, for this important statement on a very important matter that is troubling many of us, and we are glad to have you back. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! on friday 10 april, let the president know poles celebrated the 5th anniversary of one of the most tragic events in their history, the anniversary of the smolensk tragedy, which killed polish president lech kaczyński and many other memorable people. five years later, the plane wreckage, the black boxes, and other evidence are still in russian hands. a growing number of independent experts and reputable scientists are expressing serious doubts about the official findings of the cause of the disaster. recently, a book on this subject was published in germany by the well-known investigative journalist jürgen rott. we have spoken a lot in this room about the need to stand in solidarity with ukraine in the face of russian aggression, and today we have also heard this from members of this parliament who in 2010 had many illusions about vladimir vladimir vladimir putin and russia, knowing what he is capable of and what putin's propaganda is. so there is no longer any reason to trust putin and the russian justice system in this one case, the disaster that killed the president of democratic poland, a member of the european union. poland also needs european solidarity, the help of international experts and an international investigation. and that's what i'd like to ask you for: solidarity and help.
thank you, mr. chairman! five years ago, polish president lech kaczyński was killed. he was well aware of the principle of european solidarity, and he affirmed it, believing that it was necessary to extend it to ever more distant areas through peaceful cooperation between states. however, the most important thing in his assessment was to maintain a pace of integration adapted to the level of development of societies, and also to preserve the key principle of democratic legitimacy of power. he opposed russian neo-imperialism, warned against radical islamism. his far-sighted and insightful views have been met with unusual attacks from the media and political opponents. it's time to return his thought to the international community in its unadulterated form, because that's the community he served. to his memory!
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
written explanations of vote
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2014/017 fr/mory-ducros submitted by france). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns or by the global financial and economic crisis, with a view to facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. there is no doubt that the redundancies in mory-ducros sas are linked to the bankruptcy wave linked to the global financial and economic crisis. a group particularly at risk of exclusion from the labour market as a result of long-term unemployment is the dismissed workers aged 55 to 64. the purpose of the funds is to help redundant workers find new jobs through active instruments, including training. the european union's financial assistance to redundant workers should be dynamic, delivered as quickly and efficiently as possible.
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of the vote on the report on the council decision establishing the employment committee. member states and the union should work towards a coordinated strategy for employment and, in particular, for the promotion of skilled and trained workers responding to economic changes in labour markets. the decision to establish the committee shall reflect the development of the european semester and the role of the committee in this process. the weight of the employment committee shall be equal to that of the economic and financial committee, the economic policy committee and the social protection committee. all of them will be consulted together, if necessary, in the context of the european semester, which is undoubtedly important in the light of the continuing economic inequalities in europe. we expect the committee to fulfil its mandate faithfully and to be open to consultation with the social partners.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this resolution. the european parliament is today the body that debates and protects human rights in a meaningful way, not only within the european union but also throughout the world. so it is right that we commemorate this tragic event, essentially the first genocide of the 20th century. it is not only about commemorating this tragic moment in the history of the armenian nation, but also creating a certain opportunity for turkey, which although it has recently made a significant shift in relation to this tragedy and in its perception of its role in this tragedy , still has not recognized the genocide as such. so i am personally very pleased that this resolution contains paragraph 5, which talks about creating opportunities for turkey to move forward in recognizing its past and recognizing the armenian genocide.
mr president, we abstained from the vote because we did not know how to vote, because in poland there is no problem with gypsies. there is no anti-gypsy feeling. gypsies are jolly fellows travelling in a cart, playing violins and so on, but we have problems with ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. postle, this is the explanation of the vote on the armenian genocide. armenians are different, gypsies are different. you're on the explanatory voting list for the armenian genocide. you speak of gypsies, but they are two different peoples. i understand that you can wait until the next item and speak when we talk about roma. thank you very much, mr. ambassador.
written explanations of vote
in writing. in 1915, the armenians were killed along with the catholic and orthodox syrians, assyrians, chaldeans, and greeks living in the ottoman empire. more than 20 years later, german nazism was responsible for the holocaust. the mass extermination also affected the people of cambodia, rwanda, burundi and bosnia, among others. my people have suffered genocide in the past century at the hands of german nazism, soviet communism and ukrainian nationalism. the extermination of the intelligentsia, the shooting of prisoners, mass executions, the pacification of the countryside, and finally the construction of a system of german concentration camps were aimed at realizing the plans for the extermination of the polish nation. in turn, katyn, kharkiv, tver, kiev and minsk in 1940 became places of execution of polish officers killed by the soviets for being the polish elite. over 250,000 poles from volhynia, podolsk, polesie and eastern małopolska three years later became victims of a brutal genocide by ukrainian nationalists. hence our polish sensitivity to any manifestation of mass crimes, regardless of whose hands and where they take place. in voting for this resolution, i am convinced that true reconciliation can only come about in truth. the resolution also calls on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the armenian people are not subjected to any form of violence, and calls on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the armenian people are not subjected to any form of violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide because i believe that reconciliation and the joint building of the future of peoples must be based on truth and dialogue. for many years, the truth about the genocide of polish officers by the nkvd in katyn was similarly concealed. the turkish authorities should not make the same mistake. they should use this unique moment in history 100th anniversary to continue their efforts for reconciliation by opening their archives and recognizing the crimes against the armenians as genocide. turkey is seeking eu membership and is therefore committed to european standards. however, without acknowledging the crimes against the armenians, it won't be possible.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the european parliament resolution which, while recognising the armenian genocide, calls on turkey to take a similar decision and encourages further efforts to normalize relations and reconciliation between the peoples of turkey and armenia. the massacre of over 1.5 million armenians in the ottoman empire 100 years ago is one of the most cruel and shameful acts of violence in human history. genocide cannot be justified by any circumstance, tradition or religious motivation, and must be condemned. the recognition by turkey of the truth about the armenian genocide is essential, because a common future cannot be built without sincere dialogue and mutual understanding. the memory of the victims is the foundation for reconciliation, on which to build peaceful relations between people and between states. turkey, as a country aspiring to eu membership, must come to terms with its past, as historical hostility is not conducive to integration between states and can lead to the undermining of human rights, which are fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint text of the resolution because memory and truth are invaluable in the lives of individuals and of entire nations. we cannot build a future and build trust between nations when, in a matter as painful as genocide perpetrated by one nation against another, historical facts are ignored and the suffering of the victims is neglected. on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide in the ottoman empire, which claimed the lives of 1.5 million people, we must once again appeal for recognition of this fact, because it is still not for everyone undeniable. without truth, there is no forgiveness, and without forgiveness, there is no trust. the current tensions between turkey and armenia are undoubtedly rooted in the different perception of the massacre of the armenian population in the early 20th century. we europeans have had to deal with similar problems many times. with the acceptance of a shared history in which some nations have been the perpetrators and others the victims. where we were able to find common ground, to acknowledge our mistakes, to learn from them, and to start working together, we had some great results. i wish our armenian and turkish friends that on the 100th anniversary of this unjustified massacre they will find the courage to face the difficult past and, in the spirit of historical truth, to rebuild good neighbourly relations.
oral explanations of vote
mr president, we abstained from the vote because we did not know how to vote, because in poland, and i think in europe, there is no anti-gypsy feeling. gypsies are regarded as jolly fellows travelling in their carts, singing, dancing, playing violins and so on. the problem is with the so-called roma, who are living in dirty flats, demanding more and more money from social security. it is a problem of how to regard the declarations. one is using the word ‘roma’, and one is using the word ‘gypsy’.
written explanations of vote
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it draws attention to the pressing problem of intolerance, social exclusion and discrimination against roma in europe. effective political action is needed to combat this manifestation of racism and to ensure equal treatment of roma and respect for their fundamental rights, including the right to access education, employment, healthcare and housing. the roma are part of european culture and share our common values, and therefore the tragic history of this nation must be addressed, especially the nazi genocide and other forms of persecution of roma such as deportation and internment that took place during the second world war. this is still a little known fact and therefore not widely recognised by the european public. and we must remember that 500,000 of our people were killed in that war. the genocide of the roma in europe during the second world war must therefore be fully recognised. this would be an important symbolic step in the fight against anti-gypsyism and would also help to spread knowledge about the history of the roma in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on international roma day anti-gypsyism in europe and the recognition by the eu of the day of remembrance of the roma genocide during the second world war because of its symbolic importance in combating the marginalisation of the roma community in europe. the roma are the largest with 1012 million and the most discriminated ethnic minority in europe, and therefore the fight against antigypsyism is a key challenge for european countries in an effective policy to integrate roma communities into society. the social exclusion of roma takes on different dimensions - material, linguistic, legal - which overlap, making it difficult to break the vicious circle of discrimination. the most strategic priority for inclusion policy is therefore to identify precisely the causes of the marginalisation of roma communities in the regions concerned and to tailor measures to tackle this phenomenon and to integrate them.
i thank the members for their presence, i thank the commissioner, i thank our translators in particular, and i wish you all a good night, or good-night, although there is an old polish saying: 'eat breakfast alone, have lunch with a friend, and give dinner to your enemy'. (the sitting was closed at 10.15 p.m.)
mr. chairman, please! i strongly support that. we should tell the truth: there is persecution of christians in this part of the world. in other places, other religious communities are persecuted, and there is no reason for us to censor our own language. the people of europe are free people and we should tell the truth. that's why i'm totally in favor of this motion.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i too, and i am convinced of it, support the introduction of e-call in new passenger cars. for those who are concerned about this new system, it can be reiterated that the regulation has also succeeded in providing adequate privacy protection. this system will not be able to identify and track vehicles. many such details of good and wise have been included in it. i want to congratulate mrs. oleta sehnalova and her entire team on achieving this result, because this is about safety, it's about human life. but i would like to take this opportunity to say that in the automotive industry, where we're talking about human life and health and safety, we have a tremendous amount of work to do. and it's good that we're dealing with the emissions of road vehicles in parallel. because, i hear with horror, we talk about safety, and at the same time there are countries where filters are being cut off en masse from cars, for example, with diesel engines, illegal car waste is poisoning our environment in an incredible way and is a very serious threat to our health. there are more of these things. our safety and health depend to a large extent on whether we treat them as solidly as the subject we are dealing with today and tomorrow, namely e-call.
madam president! medically speaking, alcohol is a chemical substance c2h5oh and is a toxin, or poison, whether it is found in beer, wine, tincture, a mixture, spirits, or vodka. that's the first thing. we're not fighting the consumption of wine here, we're fighting two serious aspects of wine. the first is the health impact, which is estimated at many billions of euros a year, and the second is the social and economic impact, which no one can quantify, and which is also huge. the problem is that the group which needs to be addressed is the young people, who today, thanks to the powerful lobby of alcohol, which is acting through advertising, equate drinking beer and wine with having a good time. the consequences are different. we're not talking about people who are addicted, because they need to be treated, but we're talking about pregnant women who need to be sensitized so that they don't cause very serious health consequences to the fetus. we also talk about the fact that there are certain criteria, including advertising, price and, unfortunately, labelling, which is information about the alcohol content of a particular product.
alcohol abuse is responsible for over 3 million deaths, over 60 chronic diseases and an estimated social cost of nearly €160 billion in europe in 2010 alone. add to this the number of drunken driving accidents and the number of alcohol-related domestic violence in families, and you can see the magnitude of the problem. in order to effectively prevent the negative effects of alcohol consumption, prevention, education and information measures should be implemented in particular so that the consumer is aware of all the negative consequences of his decision to consume alcohol and that he is also encouraged to change his drinking habits, to switch from hard alcohols to soft ones such as wine or beer. we should give priority to raising awareness among young people, who are increasingly drinking at an increasingly young age. however, our decisions must be rational and responsible, so that we do not destroy the small businesses or family vineyards that are so numerous in europe.
madam president! after the 2013 tragedy, the bangladesh government and western clothing companies have taken joint action to ensure the structural integrity, fire safety and electrical safety of the factories. but in addition to these activities, the government of bangladesh should contribute to the recruitment and training of inspectors, and the records of these inspections should be made publicly available. it is vital that such checks be made regularly, as they can prevent similar tragedies. in addition, the authorities should actively implement reforms in labour law enforcement to ensure safe and decent working conditions for workers. it is also important that the bangladesh government allows human rights organisations to play a significant role in setting up mechanisms to monitor human rights violations that are taking place in the country.
in writing. in bangladesh, there have been a number of clothing factory tragedies, the most serious of which was the rana plaza building collapse. the disaster is one of the most tragic examples of human rights abuses in the commercial sector, and the images of workers killed in the ruins of the collapsed factory have become a poignant symbol of the pursuit of profit at the expense of human life and health. we are here today to remember the victims of this disaster and to show our respect for their families. despite some labour law reforms, workers still report harassment and intimidation to prevent them from forming or joining trade unions. i call on the government of bangladesh to ensure the enforcement of labour laws and to carry out further reforms to bring the law in line with the standards of the international labour organization. the bangladesh authorities need to strengthen their capacity to control the garment industry and increase the resources available to the authorities responsible for construction and fire safety. the use of violence and discrimination against trade unionists is a matter of concern, and i would therefore also like to call for effective investigations into unfair practices. two years after the disaster, in which more than 1,100 people were killed and 2,500 injured, survivors and families of the victims are still waiting for compensation payments. many of them are out of work and in need of medical care. so clothing companies must take responsibility for the workers in asian factories.
rapporteur.– madam president, this multi-species plan has been long awaited. i believe this approach is much more effective than management based on a single species. it aims to take account of interspecies interactions, such as the influence of the cod stock on herring and sprat stocks, and the other way around. the plan should provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of these stocks and for the stability of fishing opportunities and thereby the livelihoods of fishers. at the same time, it should guarantee that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice regarding the status of the stocks covered, interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries. the most controversial part of this dossier concerns the scientific advice, namely target fishing mortality ranges as set out in article 4 and article 5. to explain to our non-fisheries members, those ranges will indicate how much fish fishermen will be allowed to fish. obviously the smaller the range of values, the smaller the amount of fish; and the broader the range, the more flexibility for the sector from one year to another. values in the commission’s proposals are provided by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) which is the scientific advisory body of the commission. these figures are advised after careful analysis of all available data and applying scientifically reviewed and tested models. some may say that the values of those ranges provided by the commission were not in line with the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp). frankly, that is partly true. they are not yet in line, but only because we have until 2020 to reach the targets set out in the reform. the basic regulation says: ‘in order to reach the objective of [...] restoring and maintaining populations of fish stocks above biomass levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield, the maximum sustainable yield exploitation rate shall be achieved by 2015 where possible and, on a progressive, incremental basis at the latest by 2020 for all stocks.’ so we have five years to fulfil the obligation of the reform of the cfp. while setting fishing mortality targets, we should also take into account the most recent scientific advice. let us not forget that we are politicians; we are not scientists. we should not play around with arbitrary formulas. we should listen to the scientists and wisely use their advice. at the same time, i want to dispel some doubts. it is probable that future plans will be modelled on the baltic plan, but only in terms of structure. in terms of content, the principle of regionalisation will be applied. therefore what we adopt for the baltic cannot be copied for the mediterranean or the north sea. this also includes the targets. however, on the contrary, accepting arbitrary formulas would create a very dangerous precedent. this means that such an approach would also be used in other future plans for the north sea or the mediterranean sea. how are we going to explain this to the fishermen? many amendments have been tabled asking to follow the most scientific advice and this is exactly what i try to do. i want to use the fmsy (fishing mortality consistent with maximum sustainable yield) figures advised by the scientific body, ices, wisely. finally, i would also like to underline that i am against including seabirds and sea mammals in the text of the fisheries management plan because we have different legislation for that. let us not experiment with the baltic. let us follow science. let us not mix the legislation and let us not confuse politics with science.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his hard work in preparing this report. it offers a last chance to restore the baltic's resources and ensure proper conservation. it should be recalled that, until now, sprat, for example, has been treated as a pest, adversely affecting the cod population by feeding on its eggs. it was fished uncontrollably for industrial purposes. this has disrupted the food chain and led to a collapse in the cod and pelagic stocks. the only way to restore the baltic's resources is to temporarily stop all fishing and introduce protection and compensation schemes for fishermen. this is the only way to guarantee and preserve fisheries, especially family-owned fisheries, while at the same time guaranteeing their development. in the light of the disastrous policy pursued so far, the european union has a responsibility to protect the environment and to support fisheries, especially family-owned fisheries.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank everyone for their contribution throughout the process of our work and in today’s debate, even those with whom i strongly disagree. i would like to remind you of a very important point. i believe we have to stay true to our word, the word we gave last year when we voted in the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in it we understood and we agreed that we should reach certain levels, levels of fmsy (fishing mortality consistent with maximum sustainable yield), levels above msy, and those levels should be reached by the year 2020. starting from this year, we should do our best to work in a correct manner in a steady process of ensuring that those levels are reached. i believe that by tabling certain amendments we are trying to achieve something right now – this year – which is going against the word we have given to the fishermen. please remember that the common fisheries policy and this multiannual plan and all other multiannual plans are there to create a more stable framework for the future of the fishermen. when we pass certain legislation in this house they have to believe that we want to do everything in our power to ensure that there is plenty of fish in the sea and there remains plenty of work for them to do. and as such i would like to ask you to support my amendment tomorrow on the ranges from 0 to fmsy, with the note that we will do everything in our power to reach levels below fmsy as soon as possible. please remember also that this dossier contains a revision clause which is supposed to be applied in three years’ time, so even if we reach the levels by then we still have two more years to reach the levels that are in agreement with the basic regulations. please support me tomorrow and once again thank you very much for your help.
ladies and gentlemen! eliminating discards is a pillar of the reform of the common fisheries policy. it is estimated that this practice accounts for 23% of the total catch. the fight against discards is a priority for us and fishermen will have to land all commercially valuable species caught. it is good that this obligation applies both to fish below the minimum conservation reference size and to fish caught after or without fishing quotas. this will result in more reliable stock data, better management and more efficient resource management, and above all, end unnecessary waste. i congratulate the rapporteur. you have my full support.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! it's been five years since the tragic moment when the polish president and nearly 100 representatives of the polish elite were killed in a plane crash near smolensk, russia. so far, russia has not handed over the wreckage of that plane or the black boxes, and recently we had a plane crash in the alps and a joint french-german investigation into the matter and the black box records came out in a flash. it's like an example of when you want to, you can. and if you want to block something, you block it, like the russians do. i would also remind you that in september 2010, the european commission proposed that it could internationalise this investigation and help with the experts. president barroso did the same in 2010. i think we should go that way.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the very difficult situation of dairy farmers in poland. as a result of the russian embargo, milk purchase prices have already fallen by about 20% compared to the pre-embargo period, while at the same time farmers will be charged with penalties for exceeding production limits for the second year in a row. these penalties will amount to approximately eur 200 million and will be levied on farmers' payments for the ongoing milk deliveries in the coming months, while the prices of the raw material delivered to the buying points will fall. despite the commission's decision to spread the payment of these fines over three years, this will be a serious burden for polish milk producers of around 60 to 70 pence per litre, which is close to 70% of the current wholesale milk price. in this situation, the part of the milk sales revenue remaining after the payment of the fines is certainly not sufficient to cover the production costs, which means losses and the inability to settle the remaining liabilities of the dairy farms, including credit liabilities. i therefore ask the commission once again to take an interest in the situation of dairy farms in poland and to prepare solutions to support this production throughout the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report i have the pleasure of presenting to you is the joint contribution of the committee on culture and education to the continuation of the implementation of the bologna process. it is also a clear and strong call by the european parliament to the ministers of higher education to take concrete actions and commitments for effective reform and implementation of the bologna process. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the counter-rapporteurs, the members of the cult committee, the ngos and the european commission for the effective work they have done together on this report. the bologna process is an attempt to organise the higher education system in europe in such a way that it becomes universally understood, accessible, trustworthy, and at the same time remains diverse or even proud of its diversity. our report focuses on the evaluation of this process, the issues that need to be improved and the new challenges that this process faces, such as youth unemployment, the economic crisis and demographic change. although the bologna process has achieved a great deal over the past 15 years in terms of quality of education, mobility, recognition of academic diplomas, there are still many areas where urgent action is needed. we believe that it is necessary to consistently implement the jointly agreed reforms in the countries of the european higher education area and to strengthen the bottom-up approach. it also requires a greater focus on the student. the learning outcomes are what the graduate knows and can do, not necessarily how they learned it. we also need clear and transparent communication on the bologna process to raise awareness and support for higher education reforms among citizens. there is no doubt that the recognition of qualifications acquired abroad, periods of study abroad and prior education should be improved. this would directly benefit the students. it should be possible for any student studying in any country of the european higher education area to have his or her qualifications recognised throughout the european union. to achieve this, we need better strategies and practices to further improve the recognition of qualifications, the implementation of a european credit transfer and accumulation system and the development and implementation of national qualifications frameworks. improving the quality of higher education and establishing quality assurance systems is a major priority for many countries. the challenge for the bologna process remains to further enhance social inclusion and equal opportunities in access to education and international mobility of under-represented and disadvantaged groups. it is also important to strengthen the links between higher education and scientific research by facilitating dialogue between academia and society and promoting the beneficial application of technological innovation in teaching and learning. continuous investment, more efficient use of available funds and the development of new financing models are needed. the objectives of the process cannot be achieved without adequate funding for higher education. the bologna process is not just a 3+2+3 system, but a series of parities that must lead to the creation of a european higher education system. that's what we expect from... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! one of the objectives of the bologna process was to promote student and faculty mobility. it is true that considerable progress has been made in the internationalisation of higher education. however, the reluctance of students to use the bologna process or the erasmus programme is worrying. this reluctance is rooted in two factors: concerns about language skills and inadequate financial resources. so we need to think about what we can do to solve these problems. perhaps extending access to erasmus intensive language courses would encourage students to go abroad. it is also worth considering increasing the amount of the scholarships, even if the amount is limited or depends on the income of the family. in addition to these problems, the structural defects of the bologna process, which hamper mobility, should also be pointed out. the rapporteur mentioned one of them, namely the difficulties in transferring ects credits. students who go to a foreign university very often have problems with the recognition of the subjects they have studied there by the home university and have to retake the exams. the second disadvantage is the 3+2 education system. in practice, the only opportunity to go abroad is for the first degree, which is difficult during two-year master's studies.
i congratulate professor ryback on his report and would like to express my support for the main points in it and for the very essence of the document itself for the continuation of the changes taking place in higher education through the implementation of the bologna process. the bologna process aims to create a european higher education area in which students have a transparent choice of high-quality courses and benefit from efficient procedures for the recognition of qualifications. the reforms under the bologna process are helping european higher education to become more competitive and attractive to the rest of the world. compatibility between education systems makes it easier for students and jobseekers to move around europe. the mobility of higher education is also important, not only in terms of structure but also in terms of the organisation involved in quality assurance. mobility is a key element of the european union's education and training programme, as well as erasmus+, which supports projects promoting cross-border cooperation with higher education institutions. the european higher education area has initiated major changes in education systems, so the next step is important... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. - i'm not going to tell you. in my speech today, the film, the european film, will be the main focus. 2014 was a big year for the european film industry, with almost 1500 european films produced, twice as many as american films. the number of viewers who watched european films was inversely proportional. most european films are only shown in the country where they were made and rarely travel to other countries. europe is the world leader in film production, but it is not always seen by the public. we have to change that. and it's through film that we have the greatest opportunity to promote cultural diversity, to learn about the history and traditions of our neighbors. that is why improving the distribution and promotion of european films is a key point in my report. apart from the cinema, which is of course the most important place for the projection of films, we have more and more opportunities to access films legally on the internet or through video on demand. in this context, there is room for innovation and a little more flexibility in the media timeline. the european film industry should seek new business methods and distribution channels, increase the cross-border provision of audiovisual services and the portability of european films, thereby providing eu viewers with access to an ever-larger and richer range of films through an increasing number of platforms. the european film industry needs a stimulating environment to fully exploit its cultural and economic potential, which will encourage investment or diversity of creation. one solution to better circulation of films is to increase the number of european films with subtitles and dubbing. now that digital copies have replaced analogue film, subtitles are much cheaper to translate, and it's possible to add them in multiple languages to a single copy of film. the numerous film festivals, such as cannes, berlin and karlove vary, and the lux prize, play an important role in promoting films, thus bringing european films to a wide audience across europe. a perfect example is the polish film "ida" by paweł pawlikowski, which initially had a low audience in poland, and only managed to gain huge publicity and success in our country after receiving numerous european and american oscar awards. of course, all these goals cannot be achieved without adequate funding. this is why the creative europe programme and the media sub-programme, as well as funding at regional level or from member states' budgets and the possibility of funding from the european investment fund, are so important. public funding should focus more on increasing the audience for european films and increasing aid for international promotion and distribution. a very important point of the report is the call for the introduction of film education and even wider media education at all levels of education from the earliest years. film education enables citizens, and in particular young viewers, to use the media critically and to be introduced to the world of cinema. i would also like to stress the need to archive film heritage for future generations. it is important that member states adopt legislative measures to improve the level of digitisation by collecting and transferring compulsory film copies.in conclusion, my report is only the beginning of the debate on the potential of european cinema in the digital age, which i hope will be continued at the european film forum and will also be reflected in the legislative proposals announced by the european commission, which parliament and the entire audiovisual sector are awaiting.
in writing. in the context of the very good and comprehensive report by mr wenty, i wanted to stress the importance of media education. the increasing mediatization of contemporary culture makes media education a very important part of general social education. this is particularly true for young people whose development and perception of the world is shaped in part by the media. i fully agree with mr wenta that the inclusion of media literacy in school curricula at all levels in the member states is important for the development of critical thinking skills and the development of communication and media literacy. in addition, watching european films is one way of learning about the language, culture and traditions of other countries.
in writing. the aim of the report is to promote, distribute and make european films more visible. there is no doubt that the european film industry should develop within a legal framework that encourages investment, diversity and enables the development of new online services. it is necessary to ensure the effective distribution of european films, so that they are noticed and reach a wider audience. it should be borne in mind that national or regional support schemes focus on the production stage, while eu programmes offer the opportunity to support underfunded but equally important areas such as distribution and promotion. it is important to remember that film is a cultural asset, and that constant exposure to european films is one of the best ways to learn about the history, culture, traditions and language of european neighbours. it is also an economic asset, as the audiovisual sector contributes to economic growth, creates jobs and fosters innovation in the european digital market. supporting the report on european cinema in the digital age will allow all europeans to benefit from their cultural heritage.
in writing. polish forestry is a model for the concept of sustainable development a model that the european union refers to in almost every document. the unesco award given to polish state forests in 2013 proves that this is the case. the new eu forest strategy for forests and the forestry sector cannot ignore the interests of state forests. that is why i do not support the report by mrs köstinger. moreover, the assumptions made in the report for the strategy do not take into account the relevant objectives. i would like to remind you that carbon dioxide is the gas of life, and its management is the basis of ecological engineering for the regeneration of agricultural and forest soils, the shaping of the desired biodiversity and the production of a renewable energy source, biomass. unfortunately, in the compromise it did not take into account the amendments that i and my colleagues from the polish delegation in the ecr group had tabled, which were important for the state forests. that's why i'm voting against this resolution.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the objective of this directive is to initiate the process of transition to a biofuel policy that will deliver significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. the european commission has proposed, among other things, to reduce the contribution of conventional biofuels, to improve the greenhouse gas emissions parameters of biofuel production and to promote a larger share of the advanced biofuels market. work on the wording of this directive has been progressing well up to a certain point, but its final form is not satisfactory. the commission's proposal to improve greenhouse gas emissions reporting by requiring member states and fuel suppliers to report estimated emissions is simply a fiction. most importantly, this directive would have serious consequences for agricultural production in many eu countries, including poland. this means losses for processors and farmers, and we don't even know yet how these losses are going to be compensated. we need to listen more closely to the voices of those who will be most affected by these regulations. therefore, we, as the polish delegation in the ecr group, abstain in the vote on this directive.
mr. chairman, please! this 2009 regulation, which refers to both directives, shows, as in the mirror, how sometimes the legislative activity of the european union can affect the consequences of economic activities. we're backing away from what we said at the time was going to be permanent. after all, the goal of 10% biofuels in transport was obvious at the time. people made decisions, took loans, built facilities. i am, of course, talking about those countries whose raw materials were agricultural products from europe. i'm not talking about these installations that have been set up to import palm oil and cause land diversion in the countries of origin. and of that, for example, in my country, there's two million tons of protein feed, which is the feed that we don't import in the form of genetically modified soybeans, which also contributes to iluc, but in south america. i think we should be planning in a reasonable way all the legal solutions that relate to business as well as energy issues. because, let's take a look at the fact that we're destroying or wasting about a third of our food, some of it in the harvest, some of it in the waste. in europe, we throw away about 90 million tonnes of food, including processed food. after all, this food was also produced somewhere, so we can't say that we're restricting food access because of biofuels. it's also because we're wasting it. which energy is best? the one that's not used, unused. so we need to have policies that allow us to reduce the amount of energy we use, but we also need to not destroy the entire economic system that we have built on our regulations. you have to make wise decisions.
in writing. eu legislation is inconsistent hasty, ill-considered, trying to impose the same solutions on all member states, despite their different economic conditions. a typical example is the climate and energy package, which is extremely unfavourable for some (e.g. poland), very favourable for others (e.g. france or sweden) and indifferent to a third group of community countries. the source of these inconsistencies are the solutions being put forward by the lobby groups in our house whose aim is to save the climate. these climate 'advocates' have led to the creation of a piece of legislation, the red directive, which commits countries to using 10% biofuels in transport by 2020. as life has shown, and as we predicted, this will lead to deforestation, and also to such land use that the world food prices will skyrocket, and as a result, instead of reducing global co2 emissions, we will see them increase. i call for an urgent review of the whole climate and energy package, which has already caused a lot of economic damage in some countries, for example in poland, so that this damage can be reduced as quickly as possible. since the law should not change overnight, putting some countries at a disadvantage, for example poland, which thanks to the ec and the ep has switched to biofuels, i will vote against the allegedly compromise iluc directive.
madam president! i think this directive is one of the few that, despite the slight differences of opinion here in this chamber, has the support of all the political groups. we all see the problem. i agree with all, or most of my previous speakers, who said how many plastic bags we put into circulation every year. there are billions! how long does it take for these bags to decompose? it takes a minute to buy, then you throw it away without thinking, and it takes hundreds of years to decompose. the pollution, the effects on the flora and fauna are absolutely catastrophic and it's good that we are making the effort to solve, or trying to solve, this problem. i am glad that this charge, which the member states are introducing or have introduced, has actually led to a reduction in the distribution or restriction of the distribution of plastic bags. i am also pleased that this directive will give further tools to the member states and i hope that they will be ambitious in achieving the targets. i disagree with those who say that price is the most important limiting factor. i think it's very important that we educate -- parents -- our young children, educate them in school, educate them about their environmental impact, educate them about changing their civic attitudes. if we have a choice between a plastic bag and a linen bag or a paper bag, we go for the other packaging.
madam president! international maritime transport remains today the only form of transport not covered by the european union's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the european parliament and the council consider that the most effective way to reduce co2 emissions from maritime transport at union level will continue to be through the establishment of a co2 monitoring, reporting and verification system. i would like to say that environmental protection is a very important issue, but i don't know why only the european union is responsible for it? the imposition of further restrictions and obligations on eu maritime transport could significantly reduce its competitiveness vis-à-vis asian or american shipping. moreover, we risk the ships of the eu countries changing their flags to avoid the consequences of unequal rules and restrictions in european maritime navigation. i appeal to you to exercise discretion and moderation in imposing new restrictions on more industries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the maritime sector.
mr president, i would like to ask you to postpone the final vote on the legislative resolution for the purpose of conducting the negotiations with the co-legislators.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by mrs gardiazabal rubial on draft amending budget no 2/2015. i believe it is essential for the citizens and economies of all member states that the €21 billion not used in 2014 can be carried over to the following years. it is also a significant financial injection for further development and the overarching objective of creating jobs and stimulating the economy. in my years in the committee on budgets, i have observed the european commission and the member states, but i do not see a clear tendency towards strict financial management. the overall error rate has been increasing since 2009 and was estimated as high as 4,7% in 2013. i support the idea in the report to enforce greater transparency on the part of the member states in cooperation with the commission and to punish them if they fail to comply with the provisions.
in writing. ‒ the e-call system can undoubtedly be an interesting solution to help rescue accident victims. however, the main problem of the system, which was the subject of a dispute in the imco committee, namely the compulsory installation and the protection of data, remained unresolved. according to the producers, the mandatory requirement will lead to a price increase of around eur 150 and increase the costs of the producers for testing. another issue is the protection of personal data, which is still not adequately secured, and therefore the security of personal data collected and acquired by e-call cannot be guaranteed. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that the introduction of e-call will reduce the number of deaths by around 2500 each year. the system will automatically connect to the nearest emergency call centre via the mobile phone network, even when passengers are unable to speak. the most controversial issue is the protection of personal data, but it should be remembered that this is not a permanent connection to the network and the system is only active when an accident occurs. the introduction of e-call is an important step towards improving road safety in the european union.
in writing. ‒ in my view, a regulation requiring new car models to have an automatic accident notification system (the so-called ecall system) must be controversial and give rise to ambiguous assessments. on the one hand, this is to protect the health and life of road users, but on the other hand, it is not to interfere with the privacy of eu citizens. the ecall system, on the other hand, collects data relevant to citizens' privacy, such as the make of the vehicle, the type of fuel used, the direction and exact location of the vehicle, and the number of seat belts fastened. experience has shown that there are no safeguards that would completely prevent access to this type of data, even if its acquisition remained illegal. therefore, i believe that ecall could perhaps be implemented, but only on a voluntary basis, i.e. the installation of the ecall system should be at the discretion of the owner or user of the vehicle. however, the regulation does not provide for this possibility and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ tackling high road fatality rates is one of the eu's top transport policy priorities, which is why i voted in favour of this report. to do this, we need to use modern communication technologies. a quick response by emergency services is often crucial to preventing fatalities. the ecall system seems to be the solution to reduce as much as possible the time between the event and the information transmitted from the vehicle to the emergency services using the 112 emergency number. i believe that the european union should take action to ensure that manufacturers introduce this solution into vehicle design. of course, all aspects of the operation of this system, especially those related to the protection of sensitive data, and in particular vehicle location information, should be subject to special protection. the implementation of this system should not in any way infringe the right to privacy. we should monitor the implementation of this system carefully at every step so that, while protecting human life, we do not open the door to abuse.
in writing. ‒ proposals to amend directives 98/70/ec on fuel quality and 2009/28/ec on the promotion of energy from renewable sources were put forward by the european commission in october 2012. from the outset, they have generated heated debate, with both ardent supporters of the proposed changes and staunch opponents of the project in the member states. according to (not entirely reliable) scientific data, the indirect land use change effect (iluc) is expected to substantially offset the greenhouse gas emission reductions achieved through the use of biofuels. the commission therefore proposed to reduce the 10% target (set in directive 2009/28/ec, which was originally to be achieved by 2020) for conventional biofuels in transport to a maximum of 10%. in many member states, however, the investments made by producers have not yet begun to yield income, since the directive has only been in force for a few years. this change would also hit hard at farmers who have prepared for the near future. after two and a half years of negotiations, an agreement was reached to limit the use of first generation biofuels in transport to 7% and to introduce an additional cap for advanced biofuels of 0.5%. this is a compromise, but changing the rules in the middle of the game is a fatal move by the commission and will certainly have a negative impact on both agriculture and the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ it is in the interest not only of european agriculture but also of consumers above all that arable land is used mainly for the production of agricultural products for the consumer market or for the production of feed for farmed animals. in addition to fossil fuels, we should also seek to produce energy from genuinely renewable sources such as solar, wind and water, and thus avoid using plants, especially those grown for the human food market. instead of raising the share of such plants in the overall energy balance, more resources should be allocated to research and development of new energy generation technologies, which will make it possible to increase the availability of energy and at the same time reduce its price. i therefore voted in favour of amending the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, but i believe that a policy of encouraging innovation and developing new technologies for the clean use of fossil fuels and natural renewable sources should be pursued in parallel.
in writing. ‒ in view of the ongoing environmental degradation and disruption of ecosystems, any action to limit these destructive processes is highly desirable. the initiative to reduce the use of plastic bags is therefore strongly supported. reducing waste is something we can do ourselves as concerned citizens of our future. each of us, if we look around us and examine our daily habits, can take small steps to improve our environmental performance, whether by saving energy or by reducing the use of single-use plastic bags. charging for them in supermarkets is one of the most effective tools to reduce their production and consumption. we must constantly work to ensure that civilization does not destroy our most precious resource, nature. monitoring of the strategy and environmental education from an early age are necessary. it's very easy to destroy, but what's destroyed is not always easy to rebuild.
in writing. ‒ used plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment. the commission proposal aims to significantly reduce the use of lightweight plastic shopping bags in the eu. this problem can be solved easily and effectively, as has already been proven in many eu countries. charging for plastic shopping bags is a quick and lasting way to reduce their consumption. it is also important to set clear targets such as reducing the number of bags to 40 per person per year by 2025 and introducing mandatory bag fees from 31 december 2018. the commission has also proposed to set targets for the recycling of plastic bags, which is a significant step forward.
in writing. ‒ for environmental protection measures to have the desired effect, they must be practicable. the idea of radically reducing the use of lightweight plastic shopping bags is a good one. however, i think it would be even more important to support research into new technologies for the production of environmentally neutral packaging. otherwise, consumer societies, by accepting higher costs, will not reduce the amount of plastic they use significantly. therefore, although i voted in favour of adopting the packaging and packaging waste directive as proposed, i would like to see support for research into new packaging technologies on the one hand and more innovative and, in particular, more efficient ways of recycling plastic packaging on the other. nor can it be used to promote the use of paper, which is often done. this increases the need for, for example, tree pruning. i believe that action to reduce plastic use and promote other packaging should be carried out in parallel, otherwise we will not achieve the globally desired environmental effect.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, an estimated 98.6 billion plastic bags were placed on the eu market. most of these are lightweight plastic bags, which are usually disposable. although i am in favour of limiting the use of lightweight plastic bags and introducing charges for their use, for example, i abstained in the vote because the proposed rules are too restrictive.
in writing. ‒ environmental protection is important, but there are limits to the interference of public institutions in the area of economic freedom. restricting the use of plastic shopping bags per person is an extreme solution, but it is certainly justified. the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as part of the 'safety and environmental impact assessment' of the european union. that would be a more rational solution. as history has shown, the use of a system of commands and prohibitions does not always have the desired effect and often causes the opposite reaction instead of encouraging society to act in an environmentally friendly way. the obligation on member states to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags will also hit their manufacturers. while it is difficult to assess all the negative effects of these regulations on the labour market and the economies of the member states, they cannot be underestimated. therefore, in view of all the above arguments, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in the second half of the 20th century, fishing in the baltic sea has been greatly intensified. by the end of the century, this had led to overfishing, as the cod fishery illustrates: from over 400 000 tonnes a year in the early 1980s to around 40 000 tonnes a decade later. in recent decades, studies have shown that over-fishing affects dozens of baltic fish species, threatening their extinction and the biological balance of the waters. the common fisheries policy (which was established in the 1970s as part of the common agricultural policy and has been formally operational since 1983) is therefore designed to manage eu fish stocks and to ensure fair income and a level playing field for fishermen in the member states. since herring, cod and sprat are the main fish species caught in the baltic sea, the proposed multiannual plan for these stocks is multi-species. this will allow a broader approach to fisheries control to be developed, taking into account the interdependencies between these species. this is certainly a good strategy, allowing for efficient management of fishing quotas and guaranteeing a balanced approach based on the most up-to-date scientific data on the stocks and the baltic ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ regulating fisheries in the baltic sea is of paramount importance. this is a small body of water with relatively limited natural resources. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the proposed draft regulation. however, i believe that it is not just the rules themselves that are important, but also the adoption of fair standards and their distribution among the countries benefiting from the baltic sea. the implementation of new standards also requires effective fisheries controls, so that the adoption of rules at eu level has a measurable impact on businesses and consumers, as well as on the environment.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to create a multi-species management framework for the baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks, which have accounted for nearly 94% of all catches in the baltic in recent years. the plan should help to ensure the sustainable exploitation of those resources and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the sustainability of the livelihood of fishermen. experts and fishermen in poland are sounding the alarm about the dramatic situation in the baltic and the disruption of the marine ecosystem, which is why i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of full, full membership of croatia in the european union. it would appear that the extension of the eu-russian federation partnership and cooperation agreement to croatia is only a minor procedural adjustment. however, it sends an undesirable political signal, signifying acceptance of russia's status as a partner country. in the meantime, it is responsible for the illegal annexation of crimea, the armed aggression against eastern ukraine and the use of hybrid warfare against its neighbours, including eu members. the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation, which is attempting to rebuild its soviet or russian empire sphere of influence by force, should be suspended and, if aggression continues, dissolved.
in writing. ‒ russia is not a party with which the eu should in any way move to normal diplomatic relations at this time. although this amendment concerns only technical aspects and is not intended to modify the substance of this agreement, until russia's illegal activities in ukraine cease, crimea is returned and russian troops are withdrawn from the territory of the eu-associated state, we should freeze all such activities. even if it is a small gesture, it is necessary to demonstrate our outrage at moscow's violation of international law. that is why i voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process is an intergovernmental initiative designed to enable the sustainable development of higher education in the european union. it aims to standardise the quality of education, to promote student mobility and to give students a wider choice of educational pathways. quality higher education is essential for cultural, economic and social development and for providing young people with an education that will enable them to succeed. much remains to be done, but i believe that the implementation of the bologna reforms will enable european higher education to meet the challenges of an ever-changing labour market.
in writing. ‒ the objectives of the bologna process have been achieved by member states to a very uneven degree. the priority is to implement the reforms agreed jointly. achieving this requires political commitment and cooperation, and an important element should be the development of additional tools and methods to help countries facing challenges make greater progress. it also requires greater focus on the student, his needs, and what he should learn. the social aspects of the bologna process are considered to be among the most neglected. most students participate in programmes that follow the three-stage structure of the bologna process. the creation of such a study structure is a way of better preparing graduates for the demands of the labour market and social challenges. the proper implementation of the european credit transfer and accumulation system (ects) is necessary to achieve the objectives of the bologna process. the recognition of qualifications acquired abroad should be improved, which would bring more direct benefits to students. another important aspect is the joint programmes, which are also a key aspect of the internationalisation of higher education. work should be done to develop mobility in the bologna system, both for students and for teachers and education staff.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the potential of the european cultural and creative industries is not being fully exploited. europe, which until recently was an inspiration for other countries and continents, is losing its position more and more clearly not only to america but also to asian countries. the example of south korea, india and, closer to home, turkey, shows that, with the right mechanisms, regional works can be turned into a leading export product. tv series and films from these countries are conquering the world, including europe. that is why i was pleased to support the report. the rapporteur rightly points out that the problem is not the quality of european production or its tightness, but above all the lack of effective promotion. europe, which produces 1,500 films a year in dozens of languages, is unable to encourage or even provide its citizens with the opportunity to watch them. if we are now asking ourselves how to create new jobs in the union, the cultural sector is the place to be. by changing the funding model for film production and channelling part of the funding to broad promotion - including language translation - we can increase the potential of this industry and create new jobs in a very short time.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the new eu forest strategy for forests and the forestry sector because i believe that it does not present the concept of sustainable development. the new eu strategy cannot serve the interests of private forest owners alone, bypassing state forests. the commission notes that the forestry sector is not a single sector, but is rather a group of sectors, which are linked by a common economic interest. the rapporteur, mrs köstinger, has not taken into account the important amendments concerning, among other things, the carbon capture mechanism which i tabled with my colleagues from the polish delegation in the ecr group. as a member of the european parliament from poland, where forests are the wealth of all citizens, i cannot agree to such a strategy. that's why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ forests are one of europe's greatest assets. in many countries, they make up more than half the land area. they are a part of the landscape, a home and a shelter for animals, a 'green lung' for urban centres and a source of employment for over 3.5 million europeans. so i agree that we should be more careful and precise in our approach to planning and managing this natural resource. the most important aspect of this strategy is the sustainable development of forestry and the timber industry so that present and future generations can both benefit from and enjoy it. i agree with the rapporteur that the strategy should not impose additional bureaucratic guidelines on forest owners and foresters, but rather, because of their heterogeneity, should set out individual criteria for each area. it is also necessary to take advantage of innovative research and ideas that will enable the timber industry to develop in innovative ways and provide even more jobs to the economy.
in writing. ‒ this report covers all aspects of forestry, with emphasis on more sustainable long-term development, resource efficiency, multi-functional forest management, future challenges related to wood scarcity and threats from climate change, and most importantly, calling for an action plan with specified resources and funding. better and more efficient use of forest resources and the maintenance of employment in the sector will help europeans to better understand the importance of forests for the environment and the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new eu forest strategy for forests and the forestry sector. the european union should play its part in supporting national policies to achieve active and sustainable forest management. it is essential to promote the management of different types of forests and to strengthen cooperation in the face of cross-border threats. it is important to remember that forestry is the responsibility of the member states, so the subsidiarity principle must be respected and differences in preferences between countries, regional conditions and ownership models must be respected. the european union should stop imposing new market restrictions on forestry and wood products and, through these measures, ensure the application of the principles of market freedom. the european forest information system will be an additional valuable asset, to support the exchange of data, best practices and up-to-date knowledge on forests in the member states, thus contributing to the active development of this sector of the economy.
in writing. ‒ the report on the new forest strategy aims to update the european framework for forestry activities that support sustainable forest management. in reality, however, it represents the interests of private forest owners, bypassing the interests of state forests. meanwhile, polish forestry is a model for the concept of sustainable development, a concept that the eu refers to in almost every document. the unesco award given to polish state forests in 2013 proves that this is the case. moreover, the assumptions of the strategy do not take into account the relevant objectives. it is important to remember that carbon dioxide is the gas of life and that managing it is the basis of ecological engineering to regenerate agricultural and forest soils, produce a renewable energy source such as biomass and shape the desired biodiversity. the rapporteur also did not include in the compromise text amendments that were important for state forests, which were tabled by pis mps at the meeting of the agriculture committee. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ wood is a strategic national asset which like other natural resources should be protected and treated with special care. the fact that this is a renewable resource should not lead to its exploitation in an irrational way, putting current economic interests above a rational approach to the use of resources. the state forestry enterprises play an important role in protecting against deforestation. compared to private companies, they are the model for the concept of sustainable development, which is widely present in the environmental policy of the european union. the polish state forests in my country are the best example of this, as evidenced by the award of the unesco prize in 2013. for this reason, i cannot support a report which puts the interests of private forest owners ahead of the interests of the state forests.
mr. chairman, please! the security of the european union requires close cooperation between states. however, the treaty principle of the responsibility of the member state for national security has already been violated by regulations such as the asylum package. there are two fundamental external security factors that affect our internal security: one, it's daesh and its consequences, but the other, it's the aggression of the russian federation against ukraine. fortunately limited, but with elements of hybrid warfare, political destabilization, and aggressive propaganda. this situation requires an adequate response on our part.
mr president, we need a comprehensive action plan that covers the internal and external dimension of security and horizontally connects various sectors under clear rules as described in the document. fighting against cybercrime is a key challenge; with the loss of more than eur 300 billion every year, each of us can become a victim of cybercrime. i am pleased to see that cybercrime is one of the top three priorities in the european agenda on security. very often now, cyberspace creates the framework for organised crime and terrorism. we need to set the rules, use modern technologies to find appropriate tools and build public-private cooperation. there are new technological possibilities which allow for processing the data – not personal data: frequencies of data set transfers, photos by spectrum of colour analysis – and preventing crimes. research and innovation can be a successful source for new forms of security. this is the new concept of data-driven security. the fight against organised crime remains high on the agenda, but we need to make the anti-terrorism policy more effective by adoption of the pnr directive, by more resources dedicated to fighting radicalisation, and by better use of algorithms supporting the early warning system. we need the synergy of cooperating eu institutions to be able to gather enough resources and to efficiently exchange information under clear rules of privacy protection. i believe that the european cybercrime and counter-terrorism centres in europol should be further strengthened.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european commission is increasingly concerned with the internal security of the union. the fight against crime requires better cooperation between all the countries of the union. we are facing increasing challenges such as terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. they are increasingly threatening societies across europe. the fight against crime must be primarily carried out by the member states. however, cooperation within the union brings tangible added value. in this area, two actions are particularly important. first, to facilitate the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and union agencies, such as information on stolen documents or vehicles. second, we need to change the rules on the transfer of information from criminal records. currently, 26 eu member states exchange more than 100,000 messages each month on punished eu citizens. however, this system does not cover punished non-eu nationals. this is a serious problem, for they are increasingly forming international criminal groups that engage in human smuggling and drug trafficking. it is worthwhile that information about these criminals is made known to law enforcement authorities in all countries of the union.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union has no money of its own in its budget, only money from the contributions of the member states, from the citizens of our countries. are you not afraid that the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which is to have clearly distinct powers from those of national prosecutors' offices, will limit the ability of national prosecutors' offices to defend the money we have transferred to the european union? is this not another usurpation of state powers by the central institutions of the european union?
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i am a little surprised that these voices, including those of mr michel, express such a far-reaching distrust of the member states and national legal traditions. but i'd like to ask you something very specific. the regulation on the european public prosecutor's office cannot be adopted without the agreement of all the member states, as the treaty provides for such a procedure. if the state is pushing for a solution that is so centralistic and so distrustful of the member states... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! this is a matter which must be dealt with with great delicacy and, as i said in my debate with mr michel, with respect for the member states and their legal traditions. that is why i cannot accept mrs macovei's report, which goes in a completely different direction. in the case of the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office, nine member states reported a yellow card. i would remind you that this institution can only be set up with the agreement of all the member states and that we must act very delicately. the report calls for the creation of a super-centralized authority, effectively superior to the member states, with two competencies at once: not only the fight against fraud at the expense of the european union, but also the fight against cross-border crime, which was to be, according to the treaty, the second step in the construction of the european public prosecutor's office. and the state, by its desire for centralism, is working with the effect that there will be no european public prosecutor's office, that it will be established in only a few countries. centralization is the enemy of common sense and europe.
madam president! the foundation of the european union is the nation-state. if we undermine their role, we will undermine our cooperation. because who's gonna be on her side? we have seen recently how the nature of the monetary union, for example, has changed. originally intended as a means of exchange, the single currency is now becoming a means of controlling the economic policies and budgets of the member states of the european union. the same applies to the european public prosecutor's office. my predecessor has just referred to the treaty of lisbon article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. but there is already a paragraph 4 in the treaty which extends the powers of the institution. i would like to repeat the warning that many of my colleagues have already given. if we forget that the eu should have as many common institutions and competences as it has common values and interests, if we create unnecessary institutions, we will only undermine the trust of the peoples of europe and the citizens of the nations of europe in the eu institutions we will undermine the foundations of our cooperation.
madam president! the idea of establishing a european public prosecutor's office is an expression of a very bad trend in the european union. a trend that can be summed up as less and less money, more and more power, less and less aid, and more and more repression. let's remember that the budget of the european union is less than 1% of the gross domestic product of the eu, and the authority of the european union is very quickly moving towards 100% control over everything that happens in the member states of the european union. we are absolutely opposed to this direction of the evolution of the european union. the european union should be an institution that helps its citizens first, that comes to help, not to repress. that's why the idea of the european public prosecutor's office is bad. our political group and i personally are opposed to the national institutions handing over the european public prosecutor's office.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i think that my colleague from the european people's party is trying to, as you say in german, verhamlosen this problem. after all, it was the spokesman for the german government who started this whole debate, and it's not just an internal german one. i think that this is not just a matter for us as the european parliament or for europeans. it is not just a question of the bnd providing information on european citizens, businesses and politicians. the commissioner has, however, typically spoken only of western europe. i think this is all over europe. now, the problem, i think, is not just the bnd's cooperation with the nsa, but also, by the way, in many press reports, the problem is perhaps the bnd itself, which collects information on such a large scale about european citizens, about businesses, about politicians. as the german debate shows, it is not taking place with proper democratic control. i have to say, i wish i knew more as a parliamentarian, as a citizen... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. mr president of the parliament! vice-president of the european commission! i'm going to speak for six minutes, and this will be my longest speech in the european parliament, and i'm in my 11th year. but there's a lot to talk about, because we're going to be looking at how the main institutions of the european union, including its agencies, are controlling their finances. this is of particular interest to the european taxpayer, the european voter. as for the european council, we regret to note once again its unwillingness to cooperate with the european parliament. the council must participate fully in good faith in the annual discharge procedure, as do the other institutions. it can't be equal and more equal, like in george orwell's animal farm, where all animals are equal, but some are more equal. and translating orwell's words into european institutions the council is the more equal animal. this can't be happening. the previous council president was from belgium, now he is from poland. i don't see any major changes. there is also the german secretary general who is leaving and a new danish secretary who will take up his post in july. is this going to be a new quality? you'd hope so, but it's really not good in that way. we are still waiting for answers to our questions, nothing is changing here and many documents are still missing, particularly those relating to the council buildings policy. european court of justice excessive length of the procedure, need for better synergy in terms of translation and interpretation. note: the need for a real, realistic geographical balance. because there is always the problem that the so-called "new union", the countries that joined the union in 2004, are such a poor cousin. not just in the ets, but also - and perhaps especially - in the european external action service, which is our eu diplomacy. it cannot be that the countries of the new union, including my own country, poland, are in a kind of stepmotherhood, that is to say, that they are immediately in a worse situation, that there are fewer representatives of them and that they occupy worse positions than the representatives of the old union. this is a real problem, and i'm going to bring it up again. as regards the european court of auditors, as mentioned, there is certainly a need to improve the quality of audits on the state of implementation of the budget, and to be flexible in applying the audit to certain problems that arise suddenly. the average time for the preparation of special reports should of course be reduced. i am returning to the subject of the european external action service: the problem is the so-called heavy administration, that is, the large number of high-level posts that should be reviewed in order to simplify the decision-making process; the competences, the responsibilities of the so-called special representatives of the union are still unclear. and i stress once again, ceterum censeo carthaginem delendam esse, the need for geographical balance, and therefore for the opening of the door to the representatives of the new union, including my country, poland. as regards agencies, 32 agencies are covered by the discharge procedure. the european institute of innovation and technology is facing the same problems as last year, and there is no improvement in quality. in this context, the court of auditors assessed the quality of the audit certificates issued by the independent audit firms as insufficient by the eit, despite the fact that the european institute of innovation and technology had previously provided appropriate guidance to the firms concerned. the fact that these ex ante controls are not effective is of course a problem and it must be said. as a result, the european institute of innovation and technology has had to cancel some contracts already concluded and this money has to be returned to the budget. now, the question of joint ventures, or ecsel. we can say that in general these joint ventures - of course we are also talking about artemis and eniac - which, one might say, gave birth to ecsel, because the merger of these two ventures took place last year - had mainly problems related to the reliability of the accounts, the legality and regularity of the transactions, internal controls and the implementation of the budget. when it comes to the imi, the medical field, which is of great interest to our taxpayers and voters, for the second year in a row, the errors are above the 2% material threshold. i hope that tomorrow's vote will send a signal to our voters that we want more transparency when it comes to monitoring the eu institutions.
we are debating the discharge for 2013, the last year of the 2007-13 financial perspective, but at the same time the discharge for the commission, which simply no longer exists because its term of office has expired. so one of the essential functions of discharge, which could decide the commission's future, is simply gone. but the substantive assessment of the use of the measures is particularly important, with a particular focus on the level of error. indeed, this error rate, often as high as 4 to 5 percent, is much higher than we would like to have. and as for the lessons of the financial and economic crisis, i think we should probably learn a little more from them here. then there is the performance orientation - here it is of particular importance - the verification of priorities and the assessment of their achievement, and finally the common methodology between the european court of auditors and the european commission for the preparation of reports and indicators. i think that here the methodology and the contribution of eto deserve a lot of recognition. what is it that we are definitely missing or imbalanced about this report? this is to point out the shortcomings on the one hand, but on the other hand, for the sake of sustainability, to show where improvements have been made and how the european commission can control the member states.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 29 april 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by elisabeth morin-chartier on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund as regards the increase in the amount of initial pre-financing payments for operational programmes supported under the youth employment initiative (hyperlink "http://ec.europa.eu/prelex/liste_results.cfm? the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been granted met or it. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we have to realize that unemployment in a select group, in this case the youth group, is a component of unemployment in general. let's not be busy moving trash around, because that's not organizing. we need to get the economy in order. after all, we have to realize that if we find artificial instruments to force this selected group into the labor market, it will only cause unemployment to appear in other groups and increase unemployment either among the bald, or among the fat, or among the short, but it will still be unemployment. unemployment is the result of bad policy decisions and the effects should not be fought, the causes should be eliminated. the reason for unemployment is a bad economic situation. it's not the companies that hire people. you have to realize that people are employed by consumers. if consumers have money in their pockets, then business flourishes and there is no unemployment - people are employed, paid and respected. we need to reduce the fiscal burden.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! in the current critical situation of young people in europe, the european commission's proposal to increase the funds for pre-financing the initiative was a very good decision and a hope for a quick improvement. it is particularly gratifying that both the european parliament and the member states have decided to accept the commission's proposal without unnecessary amendments, which will ensure that the funds are released quickly, and the excellent work of elisabeth morin-chartier and her team will ensure that this is the case. however, it appears that the lack of liquidity is neither the only nor the main problem faced by member states. since the launch of the initiative, there has been no adequate implementation and no measurable progress. we all know that time is of the essence during unemployment, because people who have been unemployed for a long time have a much harder time getting back into work. moreover, in many cases, the lack of work and income is pushing young people closer to the poverty line every day, and if they cross the poverty line, it further degrades their situation and their chances of reintegration into society. therefore, both the european parliament and the european commission should put pressure on member state governments and strive to use the available funds as efficiently and as quickly as possible.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! mrs spinelli, whom i respect very much, has accused the council of inaction in this matter. the council is not an abstract institution. i would like to ask the honourable member what she is asking of the italian social democratic government in this matter, because no institution is an abstract institution and the italian government has the same responsibility as all other governments.
mr. chairman, please! history teaches us many good solutions. we have to remember that a few generations ago, it was from this very place where we are now, that the emigrants fled - and they did it through more water - from famine, from war, they sailed across the ocean and there they built, with nothing, the greatest wealth in the world and the greatest power in the world. and it turned out to be possible. so let's learn and draw conclusions: what conditions, what factors, determined this? well, there were only two rules that decided that. first, these immigrants were assured that there, no one would take away the fruits of their labor, that they would work for themselves. second, they were aware that they would not be able to reach out to others. and that's what made them prosper. on these terms, let's welcome the immigrants here - let them build their prosperity and let them build our prosperity.
the tragedy in the mediterranean required us to act quickly, and we did. the conclusions of the extraordinary council summit and the commission's actions were primarily aimed at saving the lives of those people who dreamed or dream of getting to europe. in particular, the decision to triple the funding for operation triton, which is crucial in the face of this tragedy, is so important for saving lives. however, it seems that the legitimacy of frontex needs to be increased so that the area patrolled by frontex is extended to the south, to the open sea, where most of the sinking occurs. this was the reach of operation mare nostrum, which saved 170,000 refugees. i personally remember how europe helped political refugees after martial law was imposed in poland in 1981. european solidarity helped us survive then, and a few years later, to change the political system. today, our country has become an attractive country. this is why european solidarity on refugees is so necessary, but it should be the essence of voluntary solidarity action by all eu countries.
in writing. criticism of eu immigration policy is growing after another tragedy in the mediterranean, where more than 900 migrants drowned trying to reach europe. in 2014, about 3,500 people died on similar desperate voyages. the number of lucky people who managed to get into the union officially exceeded 207 thousand in the same year. according to the european agency frontex, the number of illegal immigrants has increased dramatically in recent years. a few years ago, the number of cases was around 70,000 to 100,000 a year, but now it has doubled. according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees, some 4 million undocumented immigrants from africa and asia are currently living in europe. along with the illegal voyages, there is also the threat of the islamic state, which has wreaked havoc in iraq and syria, causing an exodus of people from those areas, mainly towards europe. without a genuine community foreign policy, the migration of mediterranean refugees cannot be effectively counteracted or the conflicts that cause it resolved. in this context, we call for increased cooperation between the european commission and the countries of origin and transit of migrants. increased vessel and air patrols for the eu's 'triton' operation in the mediterranean and the frontex budget will be necessary to enable the union to effectively protect its borders and address the hundreds of thousands of migrants in refugee camps on its territory.
mr president, in contrast with a number of my reports, my speech will be very short. i would like to thank everyone for contributing to my work and i would especially like to thank the shadow-rapporteurs for their great help and engagement. i would like to thank the authors of the amendments, the administration and my advisors. finally, i believe we really have done a lot for the transparency of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 commission represents the end of a multiannual programming period for which the new commission cannot be held responsible for, and so, the parliament can only recommend that the lessons taught particularly within the discharge procedure and the financial and social crisis are to be learnt. 2013 marks a historical point in terms of impact and change of political and economic challenges, obliging us all to review our priorities and the results achieved. we welcome the progress made and call the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientation, transparency and good governance in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted to increase the amount of initial advance payments paid to operational programmes under the youth employment initiative. the budgetary constraints currently faced by member states, as well as the lack of funds available at the beginning of the programming period, have caused delays in the implementation of projects at national and regional level. most member states do not have sufficient funds in their budgets to make advance payments for projects aimed at young people. in general, countries pre-finance projects at national level and then receive reimbursement from european union funds. however, the rate of the initial advance payments, which amounted to 1 to 1,5% of the total allocation, proved to be insufficient to implement these programmes. therefore, increasing the amount of the advance payments for the youth employment initiative is crucial as it will allow the funds to be mobilised quickly and efficiently for the implementation of subsequent projects. the increased advance payments will amount to over eur 1 billion (30%) and will help over 7 million young europeans who are not in employment, education or training to integrate into the labour market. any further delays in the implementation of the initiative could undermine the efforts made by member states to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i support the way europol has implemented the 2013 budget. the analysis shows that europol has expanded the scope of its collection of crime information and is increasingly transferring this information to individual countries. but i would like to draw attention to what i believe is a very important problem. under the aegis of europol, joint investigation teams are set up, which are composed of police officers from several member states for a fixed period of time. they investigate specific cross-border cases. it seems that we need to move towards the creation of such teams more regularly so that they can be permanently engaged in combating crimes with an international dimension, such as illegal smuggling and trafficking of human beings, drug trafficking, trafficking in stolen vehicles, cyber attacks on banking systems. this would require more money to train police officers for continuous, effective cooperation, i.e. more funding next year for the european police college, which is run by europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office for the following reasons. firstly, i believe that the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is an important step towards the creation of an effective system for detecting cross-border crime. the creation of a single body dealing with similar cases, but with jurisdiction over the whole of the european union, would streamline the procedure and at the same time reduce the time it takes for union citizens to recover their money. secondly, the establishment of a policy-independent institution that supports the prosecution of financial crime offers hope for effectiveness at all levels. thirdly, although i personally object to excessive bureaucracy, i believe that this is an institution that is needed to help citizens to assert their rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: burundi is located in one of the least stable and poorest regions of our globe in the great lakes region of africa. and while the civil war there may have attracted less attention than the horrors in rwanda or the congo, the fragile peace that the peace and reconciliation agreement signed in arusha, tanzania, had brought to burundi gave great hope that the presidential republic would prosper. unfortunately, the ruling party's decision to nominate the incumbent president to run for a third term is a violation of the arusha accords and has undoubtedly become one of the elements that has caused a wave of violence, protests that are a reminder of the terrible period of the civil war. high representative/vice-president federica mogherini can count on the support of my political group in the efforts to ensure peace in burundi, to ensure the smooth running of the electoral process, including a strong, effective observer mission. the democratic takeover is one of the most serious tests of democracy in burundi and we should support it.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam president, madam chairman of the commission! i'm very pleased with this initiative. i would like to ask you, however, whether you are aware of the position of the united states congress, which is a little broader, in the same respect, which could be useful if the united states congress were to give a positive opinion on the protection of historic monuments in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mrs silvia costa, member of the european parliament, whom i thank very much for having taken the initiative in this debate, has very well defined two aspects of the destruction of cultural property. the first is a specific weapon used by terrorists, and it's directed against nations and against the history of identity. but on the other hand, the deliberate destruction of cultural property is a source of enormous revenue. moreover, these proceeds from the illicit trade in cultural goods are a significant source of funding for terrorist activities. i don't know if your colleagues know that the latest figures show that the third largest black market after arms and drugs is the art market. to prevent this, we need to have very effective instruments. on the one hand, we need to train customs officials, judges, police officers, those who are directly involved. but on the other hand, we need to have an information exchange and an information campaign to make potential buyers aware of the phenomenon of illegal trade.
madam president! destroying cultural heritage is a war crime. the isis attacks outside the bardo museum in tunisia, the vandalism of a museum in mosul, and the vandalism of monuments in syria are disturbing acts of cultural cleansing. terrorists destroy civil, religious and archaeological sites that are part of the common heritage of humanity. their strategy is to destabilize the population and, above all, to destroy their roots and identity. the illegal trade in cultural objects is an instrument of war used to finance terrorist activities. i call on the union to take steps to improve cooperation with the un, the international observatory on illicit trafficking in cultural property, europol and interpol, in line with the un security council resolution of 12 february, which condemns the destruction of cultural heritage in iraq and syria. consideration should also be given to the need to establish an effective form of cooperation between the union and unesco, in particular with regard to the protection of cultural heritage in conflict zones.
the old europe demands respect for heritage. i want to emphasize the common heritage, not christian, not european, but common heritage. i like it a lot. too bad it's late and often inconsistent. the second thing that is very important is that old europe condemns the destruction of monuments in syria and iraq. these are very important examples, but it's good to remember that there are other examples of military destruction in this room, as well as examples of simple vandalism. i would also like to stress that we must also use these facts in europe, first of all to educate ourselves. and to educate it as professionally as possible. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i would also like to invite you, i hope on behalf of mrs costa, to the cultural affairs committee, where we will be able to expand on this subject in a few words.
ladies and gentlemen! albania has recently become the site of increased religious penetration by saudi arabia. this penetration could seriously disturb the relations between the muslim majority and the christian minorities in the long term, the traditional social harmony, the traditional spirit of national unity in albania, which is very well described in article 19 of the proposed resolution. but that, ladies and gentlemen, is not the concern of the authors of this resolution. what are they proposing to albania? in paragraphs 20 and 21 same-sex marriage as the greatest good excuse the irony that europe can offer its neighbours. first of all, i would like to say to my fellow christian democrats, to my fellow members of the european people's party: unfortunately, your embrace of the culture of the far left has destabilised most of europe. only a return of your communities to traditional european values can restore political balance to europe.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 30 april 2015.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on the commitments of eu member states for official development assistance (oda) (o-000035/2015 - b8-0113/2015) and the oral question to the commission by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on the commitments of eu member states for official development assistance (oda) (o-000036/2015 - b8-0114/2015) (2015/2611 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! development aid is both an expression of solidarity and an investment in a safer and more sustainable world. the union and its member states are the largest donors in the world. the union's contribution to official development assistance is more than half of the total global contribution. some eu countries have cut aid spending during the crisis. now the total seems to be increasing. but it is not as high as europe had hoped. the millennium development goals will be phased out in 2015. these goals, which have been the basis of development cooperation for the past 15 years, will be replaced in september at the un in new york by a framework for poverty eradication and sustainable development. therefore, 2015 as the european year for development is crucial for sustainable development. official development assistance must continue and we must strive to reach the target of 0.7%, but i think it is also very important to introduce other forms of innovative development aid financing.
member of the commission.– mr president, i think the discussion here today has been very useful and raised some important points. i would like to thank parliament for focusing on this important issue and i look forward to a future debate on this topic. your remarks have underlined to me even more strongly the importance of the eu maintaining bold leadership on official development assistance (oda), despite the budgetary challenges we face. let me reiterate my commitment to making every effort to facilitate agreement on a recommitment to the oda targets amongst our member states. whilst i believe it is right that we also have expectations of others, we must be ready to play our full part in presenting our clear political commitment to oda. but in closing, i wish to underline that what, beyond oda, will really make the difference in terms of post-2015 implementation are good policies, domestic resource mobilisation, channelling the potential of the private sector and trade and innovation policies. in these areas too, the european union is investing a lot of effort and will continue to do so. it is only in this way that we will be able to rightfully claim that the european union is not only the biggest player in global development cooperation but also the best, the most effective player.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i think the exchange we have just had shows the high importance of the respect institutions pay to the issue of official development assistance (oda) in the context of the global post-2015 negotiations. i will make sure that the views expressed are transmitted to the council. many of you have called on the member states to make immediate commitments. this invitation is being heard and taken very seriously. at the same time, i hope you will agree that decisions on oda commitments and budget timetables are of high political sensitivity at national level. eu credibility will be at stake if we commit to something that we could fail to deliver by any specific date. the council is in the process of discussing the issue, both in terms of the conditions and the timing of recommitting. we want to take an informed decision. the development ministers are due to have a comprehensive discussion on 26 may 2015. as i have already said, and commissioner mimica has confirmed, for the addis ababa conference we need a well-balanced package, of which oda is just a part. issues such as trade, remittance, support for domestic resources, mobilisation, and science, technology and innovation can be much more interesting for a whole range of developing countries than oda, which should be directed to those most in need. the coming months will be crucial in this respect. the latvian presidency remains committed to reaching a consolidated eu position in time so as to ensure a satisfactory outcome of the complex global negotiations ahead of us.
i'm closing the debate. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. there is no doubt that achieving the ambitious objectives set by the new sustainable development goals requires intensive action by member states, while ensuring adequate and predictable funding. i therefore consider that it is necessary and reasonable to maintain the collective commitment of the union at 0,7% of gni and the commitment of the countries that joined the union in 2004 at 0,33% of gni. i also encourage the council to uphold this commitment at the meeting of development ministers at the end of may. the latest oecd publications show that, although some member states have been forced to reduce their development aid budgets as a result of the crisis, it is important to remember that the european union remains the largest donor in the world, and that aid is stable and growing.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the council by mr pavlo svoboda, on behalf of the legal affairs committee, on the marrakesh treaty on exceptions in copyright for the visually impaired (o-000021/2015 - b8-0110/2015) (2015/2586 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner, president of the eib! thirteen is a wild number, but thirteen was not a wild number for the european investment bank. this bank is the one that doesn't evoke negative emotions, and for that, congratulations. i think it is important to say first of all that the success of the bank you are running will be measured by its real impact on the economic development of the countries of the european union, and also by the promotion of joint investment in the countries which have recently signed association agreements with us. i am thinking, for example, of joint investments between romania and moldova and poland and ukraine. you have to find a balance between transparency, sharing information about what you do, and the bank's interest. good luck and congratulations.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in this year's eib report, the european parliament focused on several important areas. first, it was stressed that strengthening the eib's financial instruments cannot replace national economic policies or structural reforms in the member states. secondly, the report noted the efsi proposal and stressed that the efsi management and monitoring process, the selection procedure and the criteria used to determine the projects eligible for inclusion in the list should be as transparent and objective as possible. what makes me so happy? it was stressed that smes are the backbone of the european economy and should be the main target of investment. the report called on the eib to examine in detail what measures have been taken with regard to the intermediaries' strategy to ensure that smes have better effective access to finance. it was also stressed that there was still a large margin of manoeuvre with regard to improving the eib's transparency.
madam president, please! the european investment bank plays a key role in financing europe's economic development. this special position is due to the fact that the bank supports investment projects that would not be financed by commercial banks due to increased market risks, the large scale of the funds involved or the long horizon of the investment. at the same time, the bank meets all prudential and capital requirements and is therefore an institution of the highest reliability and trust. the eib has significantly increased its investment commitment through the strengthening of its capital base in 2013. the amount of loans and credit granted increased by eur 15 billion. financing for european projects and for small and medium-sized enterprises has grown particularly rapidly. it should be noted that eib lending has acted counter-cyclically, supporting european economies in the difficult period of economic slowdown. mr president! i'd like to thank you for your efforts. in the light of these undoubted achievements, i consider the report by mr urtsun to be overly critical and one-sided. first, it imposes a number of additional tasks on the bank which have little to do with the formal mandate of the bank. for example, the requirement that the bank take on additional duties related to the monitoring of the tax liabilities of the bank's customers. secondly, the report does not mention enough the bank's statutory tasks, in particular the need to finance the development of innovative ventures and support for research and development. there's only one short paragraph on the subject. i think the bank should focus on the activities that have the most potential for growth.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the good work and the good results of the european investment bank need not necessarily be a cause for our joy, because we must remember that the work of such a bank is only an instrument, a tool for interfering in the market. when we see businesses that have been created and that are growing with the support of the investment bank, we are happy. but the absorption of the european market has not changed at all, which means that somewhere else in the market, a huge number of companies without this support had to fail. we just don't see it. after all, preference for one participant in the struggle is also discrimination against all other participants in the struggle. and this support only increases the credit action and burdens the real economy, causing the need to repay the credit, which raises prices and rather impoverishes the society, because with the same money we will be able to buy less.
madam president! i think the eib needs to rethink its role in the face of the decline of neoliberal ideology and do much more to support the removal of the economic divide in europe that we are facing. it is no coincidence that the countries that opened their markets during the period of domination of neoliberal ideology did not create their own industrial structures. this is particularly true in eastern europe, but also in southern europe. this trend must be reversed if we are to build a europe of equal opportunities. this requires a review of the criteria for granting financial support and the bank's governance structures. the criteria for granting the funds must take into account the need to build companies with decision-making centres in individual countries, rather than supporting the creation of entire regions managed from outside by corporations. in this respect too, if europe is to develop together, it must develop in a balanced way in all its member states. the eba must take this into account.
in writing. today's debate is a very good opportunity to take stock of the european investment bank's activities during the last few years of the economic and financial crisis. the institution has played a significant role in offsetting both the economic and social effects of the economic slowdown. despite the difficult situation of market credibility and stability, the european investment bank was one of the few to continue its policy of lending money to economically and socially sound projects. the european investment bank, as a non-profit-making bank, plays a significant role as a catalyst for financial support for numerous private and public investments. the eib group's financial performance increased by 37% and the capital increase in 2013 was therefore welcomed. the european union continues to face the challenges of the crisis. after a period of justified prudent budgetary and austerity policies, it is now time to invest in growth and jobs. unfortunately, compared to 2007, the level of investment in europe decreased by 18%. today, all eyes are on the european investment bank, which will be one of the main contractors for the european fund for strategic investments. given the bank's positive performance, it is to be hoped that the fund will be used for projects that will have a real impact on the european economy and generate long-term positive effects.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament has repeatedly addressed food safety, the effectiveness of the fight against food waste and the promotion of healthy eating. however, we must not forget that food safety is not just a question of quantity but also of quality. only healthy, unmodified, unscheduled food can feed the planet and give life its energy. i'm concerned about the trend that has begun to dominate production in the european union to produce large quantities of unhealthy, processed food at low cost. the impact of the consumption of low-quality products is not only severe for the health of citizens, but also for the budgets of the member states. the european commission should develop policies that promote the production of healthy, high-quality food and protect human health. every effort should be made to ensure that high standards are also applied to imported food. the terms negotiated by the commission for the gmo or cloning contracts with the us... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission.– madam president, i have listened with attention to honourable members’ interventions, concerns, warnings and proposals on this delicate subject. they will be fully taken on board when elaborating further response measures. i share your views that we need measures, such as the ones presented by the commission and endorsed by the member states, which are based on scientific and technical bases. their implementation should not be delayed. furthermore, a new set of measures will be examined with a sense of urgency. movements of plants out of the demarcated area in italy and imports from third countries have to be subject to very strict conditions. at the same time, eradication measures have to be taken in the infected area in italy to reduce the presence of the bacterium and prevent its spread in the union. the commission is determined to further intensify scientific research for xylella treatment, involving the horizon 2020 programme. honourable members, let me express my deepest understanding of how difficult it is for a farmer to remove a tree, especially when it has not yet been proven to be infected. it is our common responsibility to convince all actors of the benefits of such measures to prevent the spread of the disease in italy and beyond. in conclusion, let me assure you that the commission is ready to explore all possible tools available to support financially the implementation of the compensation measures provided in our legislation.
in writing. xylella fastidiosa is not only a threat to olive cultivation in southern european countries. the bacteria can attack several hundred different plant species, including vines, fruit trees, grasses, and grains. it has already destroyed crops in several countries in north and south america and in october 2013 the italian authorities reported its presence in the eu. no effective drug has yet been found to help the infected plants, and removing the infected organisms does not stop the disease from progressing. the potential damage that xylella fastidiosa may cause will have very serious consequences for the economy and the environment of our continent. in addition, according to the european food safety authority (efsa), the costs of combating the disease in the event of a spread of the pathogen will be extremely high. the european commission must take immediate action to curb the spread of the bacteria, focusing on strengthening controls on imported goods. however, it is also important to compensate farmers who have lost their crops and incurred severe costs as a result of the epidemic.
in writing. - i voted for the alcohol strategy. developing a single, coherent strategy for alcohol consumption is a challenge, as the problem has many facets. on the one hand, excessive drinking is a health hazard and can lead to many social problems. on the other hand, i agree with the arguments put forward by colleagues during the debate, who point to the positive cultural dimension of moderate alcohol consumption. one thing is certain, however: excessive alcohol consumption is particularly harmful to children and young people. sadly, statistics in many lands indicate that alcohol consumption among youths is increasing and the age of initiation is decreasing. i believe that education is the key to this problem, and i am glad that this has been highlighted in the draft resolution. but i think that it's not just the young people who need to be educated in this area, but the whole of society. too often adults still allow youths to drink. in many countries, it is being sold recklessly to minors in shops and bars, with no adult to intervene. i would like the commission to take this problem into account in its draft alcohol strategy and to develop guidelines to combat it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it draws attention to the tragedy of people trying to cross the mediterranean, fleeing war or persecution in syria, iraq, eritrea, somalia and libya. more than 1,500 people have died in the mediterranean since january. our resolution calls on the commission to develop a european agenda on migration that takes into account all aspects of migration and to propose urgent action to prevent further deaths at sea, and calls for closer coordination of eu and member states' policies to eliminate the causes of migration. at the same time, close cooperation with europol, fronteks, easo and eurojust should be undertaken to combat traffickers in human beings and criminal networks of smugglers linked to drug, arms and terrorism trafficking. action should be taken to identify and trace their financing and to identify their methods of operation in order to prevent them from making profits at the expense of the lives of migrants. close cooperation and compliance by third countries with international law on the rescue of life at sea are necessary, as well as ensuring the protection of refugees and respect for fundamental rights. member states should make full use of the possibilities for issuing humanitarian visas at their diplomatic missions. a solidarity mechanism must be in place in the event of a mass or sudden influx of migrants. the common european asylum system needs to be implemented quickly and effectively by all participating member states, which will ensure common european standards.
in writing. ‒ the tragic events in the mediterranean are primarily the result of irresponsible geopolitics by the great powers, which have led to the destabilisation of some north african states. but trying to solve this situation - by burdening european countries with millions of refugees - is probably the worst possible solution. first of all, this will not solve the complex situation in the north african states, nor will it guarantee a peaceful and stable life for refugees and will significantly worsen the economic situation of the countries hosting refugees. the solution to the plight of refugees must be sought in their homeland.
in writing. ‒ the european council's report on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and on migration and asylum policy in the eu has generated a heated debate. the deaths of refugees, the tragedies and the abuses that take place in their countries are shocking and unacceptable. we cannot be indifferent to these injuries. but it is clear that europe, an island of peace and prosperity in a war-torn world, has limited financial and territorial resources. our solidarity with the people of other parts of the world must be commensurate with our capacity. let's develop our immigration and asylum policies, our education systems and our social organization towards multiculturalism and multi-faith, but carefully, without losing our identity and our religion. it is essential, instead of moving the world to europe, to move europe - in the sense of institutions, organisations and ideas - to other continents, to provide assistance in situ, to curb the illegal trafficking of people. that is why i voted against mandatory quotas for member states, because these countries are economically diverse, often not yet adapted to multiculturalism, have different geopolitical situations. poland, for example, is already taking in many migrants from ukraine and other eastern european countries, and we expect more. we therefore need a non-fragmentary european policy that also takes into account these migration trends, as well as the different status of migrants in relation to the political and economic situation in their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the tragic events in the mediterranean and the union's asylum and migration policy. the lack of a common approach to migration policy weakens our ability to deal with these tragedies. unfortunately, despite many attempts, we have still not been able to develop a common approach to migration. today, none of us has any doubt that such a policy based on solidarity and respect for human rights is necessary. cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants is key to combating illegal migration. cooperation in humanitarian, financial and political assistance, which should focus both on improving the living conditions of the local population and on combating smuggling and trafficking networks. further action must focus on the proper implementation of existing legal measures, including, inter alia, the effective implementation of the directive on sanctions against employers of illegal migrants. in the debate on the union's approach to migration, we must also address the issue of legal migration. with an ageing european population, migration can be an opportunity for us to fill labour shortages in certain sectors of the economy. we therefore need a clear european system to help bring different categories of workers to europe and to curb illegal migration.
in writing. ‒ immigration should be considered not only in the context of its current consequences, but also in the context of the future effects that can be expected not only in europe but also in the areas from which people emigrate. and that's the effect that's going to be felt for decades. there is no doubt that the hundreds of thousands of people from different cultural, religious and linguistic backgrounds who are admitted to the european union each year will have a huge impact on europe's socioeconomic relations. worse, however, the significant outflow of active people from the affected areas could lead to long-term development problems and major changes in the social fabric of these countries. this can be used by extremist groups, terrorists and dictatorial governments to pursue an uncompromising policy, not only towards their own communities and peoples, but also towards third countries, including european ones. the union should therefore not only pursue a humanitarian policy towards refugees, but above all be active in the refugee centres themselves. so it is not just the effects of immigration that need to be tackled, but also the causes. for these reasons, i abstained from voting on the resolution, which did not mention the union's strategy to combat the causes of the mass influx of people from africa and the middle east to europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the tragic situation of christians in the world, particularly in africa and the muslim part of asia, deserves to be highlighted. it is time to realize that we are facing a terrible clash of civilizations, in which christianity is the party persecuted, murdered, and the material achievements of christianity are destroyed in an unprecedented way. christians are currently the most persecuted religious group in the world and improving this situation could be a realistic goal for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the killing of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab. this one of the bloodiest attacks on the academic community confirms the terrorists' determination to fight education and reinforce religious divisions. schools, educational institutions are frequent targets of attacks. according to a 2011 unesco report, an estimated 28 million young people have been deprived of access to education as a result of armed conflict. the attacks on schools are intended to both expose the weakness of local authorities in protecting civilians and to expose the ideological basis that educational institutions promote values that are incompatible with the religious beliefs of terrorists. therefore, the key to responding to such attacks is to strengthen local authorities and implement a common counter-terrorism strategy. this fight is one of the greatest challenges facing the european union today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it draws attention to a growing problem on a global scale. it points to the need to broaden the category of international law for crimes against humanity, which includes acts of deliberate vandalism or large-scale destruction of the cultural heritage of humanity. in adopting this resolution, we strongly condemn the deliberate destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites in syria and iraq by isis. the loot captured from these facilities and smuggled by isis/da'esh has become a tool of war, as it is used to finance the terrorist activities of this organisation. in addition, actions should be taken to stop looting and illicit trafficking of cultural property, in close cooperation with unesco, un agencies, the international council of museums, the international council for the protection of monuments, as well as europol and interpol.
in writing. ‒ despite the bombings, the islamic state is growing in strength, taking more territory both in syria recently in the damascus region and in iraq in the city of ramadi. from the beginning, its main weapon of war has been terror and mindless, blind destruction. after mosul was conquered, many of its ancient cultural treasures, including artifacts from the magnificent assyrian temples, were put into private collections. the sale of antiques from looted churches in aleppo and mosul is enriching the islamist coffers, giving them the funds they need to continue the war. this can't go on. the resolution put to the vote did not contain the most important theses. without the support of turkey, saudi arabia and qatar, the sale of antiques would not have been possible. and it's on those countries that the greatest responsibility lies to fight the islamists. they are responsible for the development of the underground market for art from syria and iraq. therefore, their role in stopping isil cannot be limited to words of condemnation, but must also be to actively combat islamic cells on their territory and to stop isil's financing.
in writing. ‒ today we have expressed our full support for the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina. at the same time, we stressed the need for greater engagement in the following areas: socio-economic issues, business environment, institutional framework, rule of law and governance, law enforcement policy, independent judiciary, fight against corruption, public administration reform, civil society and youth. at the same time, it is important to maintain the conditionality of eu accession. constitutional reform, aimed at consolidating, harmonising and strengthening the institutional framework, remains crucial for the transformation of bosnia and herzegovina into an effective, pluralistic and fully functional state. the future constitutional reform should also take into account the principles of federalism, decentralisation, subsidiarity and legitimate representation in order to ensure effective and smooth integration of bosnia and herzegovina into the eu. we therefore call on all political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to work towards the necessary changes. economic prosperity will only be possible on the basis of a democratic and pluralistic society and state institutions, and bosnia and herzegovina will not become a credible candidate for eu membership unless it provides the appropriate institutional conditions.
in writing. ‒ the stabilising role of eib operations to support sound projects across the eu and beyond is important, with a lending capacity increased to eur 75 billion, an increase of 37% compared to 2012. in addition, it is important to identify, attract and use additional sources of financing to stimulate economic recovery and growth. priority should be given to projects with clear results and a clear impact on growth. economic recovery and employment must remain the key guiding principles, as must anticipating cross-border challenges by increasing support for european re-industrialisation projects. a regular, structured dialogue between the president of the eib and the european parliament should be pursued in order to ensure increased parliamentary scrutiny of the eib's activities and to enhance cooperation and coordination between the two institutions. we also stress the need for a tailor-made approach by the european investment bank, which should adapt financing solutions to the specific needs of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it unjustifiably demands that the basic principles of a free economy be bent to a utopian left-wing worldview. the text of the resolution is a communist slogan calling for 'women on tractors'. the improvement of the world's food situation will not be achieved by legal injunctions and prohibitions, but by the release of human energy, natural entrepreneurship and prevention.
in writing. the resolution addresses one of the most pressing problems facing the world today and future generations, alongside the depletion of drinking water. the demographic situation is not improving the outlook. an ageing population will limit the resources of the labour force, and high natural growth in the least developed countries may cause a global food crisis. europe, therefore, as a leader, must face up to these challenges and try to prevent the impending catastrophe. the document addresses many important issues and proposes a number of solutions that should be implemented in a phased manner. public education and social campaigns to protect the environment, conserve water and reduce food waste are needed. attention should be paid to the special role of rural areas, which play a key role in food policy. co-financing is needed to ensure the sustainable development of these areas and to maximise their potential. it is also important to promote the development of small farmers, organic farms and small and medium-sized producers who provide access to food for local communities.
in writing. ‒ expo 2015 is an opportunity to reflect on the contradictions of our contemporary world and to seek solutions to the problems facing our civilisation. the problem of hunger is still a pressing one. on the other hand, mortality from malnutrition-related diseases is increasing (about 2.8 million people suffer from diseases caused by obesity or overweight). in addition, about 1.3 billion tons of food are wasted every year. these data show the importance of developing solutions that involve making informed policy choices and promoting sustainable lifestyles. the slogan 'feeding the planet: energy for life' is particularly relevant to agriculture and the common agricultural policy. the cap is the mediator between the expectations of eu citizens for agriculture and the needs of farmers facing economic and environmental challenges. the committee on agriculture and rural development has already held several debates on these issues during its current term, which have produced valuable conclusions.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the archive of the east polish karta center contains the testimonies of polish women soldiers of the home army who fought against the german occupier during world war ii. a member of the nkvd who interrogated one of them at a time when the free world was already enjoying polish hope in the second half of 1945 said: "we will not kill you, we will send you where you yourself want to die". it was the stalin era. the current system of justice in the russian federation is a direct continuation of that system, as confirmed by vladimir putin. a prisoner of that system is nadia savchenko. the european union is not a party to the minsk agreements, but a party to the peace process.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the story of nadia savchenko is both a story of modern-day heroism and an example of the powerlessness of both ukraine and the west in the face of russia's lawless actions. the detention, and in fact the abduction, of this ukrainian air force officer by the russians violates all international human rights standards. if moscow, your honor, had the courage to take responsibility for the military actions in donbas instead of waging a cowardly war at the hands of terrorists, nadia savchenko would be protected by the conventions governing the rights of prisoners of war. but even this the russians refuse, treating a soldier defending their own borders as a common criminal. well, that's the russian tradition, apparently. it is very outrageous that nadia savchenko is in prison, even though she is entitled to parliamentary immunity. it is a member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, the same council of which russia is also a member. and i would like to add a word to what mr. corrao said... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! catch the eye, if possible. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the modern world has set standards for the protection of human rights. 47 council of europe states, including russia, have ratified the european convention on human rights, which entered into force in 1953 and is a sine qua non condition for membership of the council. it appears that even russia's ratification of such a fundamental and important international act on 5 may 1998, the day of its accession to the council of europe, is not able to stop this country from violating the norms it has signed up to. one of the most dramatic examples of russia's disregard for international norms is the situation of nadia savchenko. this ukrainian military, lieutenant, pilot navigator, deputy to the supreme council of ukraine, hero of ukraine shows extraordinary courage and determination in the fight not only for her rights, but for the respect of human rights. russia has so far failed to implement the minsk ii agreement, which declared its release. the world has watched with great concern the battle that has been raging for months. this is why it is so important for meps to be involved in the informal group of friends of ukraine, which, by putting pressure on the russian authorities, supports nadia savchenko in her fight for the highest values of freedom, justice and democracy.
mr. chairman, please! the crisis in yarmouk is an affront to our humanity and a cause of great shame. the camp, which is home to some 18,000 refugees, mostly palestinians, is the scene of fighting between government forces and islamists with isis backed by fighters from the radical al-nusra front group. the situation inside the camp is dire, with refugees lacking food, medicine and fresh water. there is a famine and the area is regularly bombed by the syrian air force. further destabilisation of the conflict area could lead to an outbreak of the disease. i am concerned about the deteriorating security situation and i would therefore like to call for an end to attacks on civilians and, above all, for the respect of international humanitarian law. it is therefore important to implement the un security council resolutions throughout syria. i also call on all parties to the conflict to allow international aid organisations free access to the camp in yarmouk to allow immediate and unconditional delivery of humanitarian aid. the union should take further diplomatic initiatives to address the crisis in syria. i welcome the commitments for the future made by the member states of the union and the aid funds. however, i would point out that humanitarian aid is still irregular, just a drop in the bucket. basic humanitarian needs remain unmet. therefore, it is essential to increase support for international activities in the conflict area.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. the report shall include the correct solutions for indices in financial instruments and contracts. much attention has been paid to the careful development of the definition and subsequent treatment of the so-called key and non-key indicators, the treatment of commodity indicators, the iosco exclusive rules for the regulation and the access to indicators used by third countries. the proposed regulations should contribute to improving the reliability of indicators, reducing their vulnerability to manipulation and, indirectly, increasing confidence in and improving the conditions for the functioning of financial markets. however, i would see a number of areas where improvements could be made, particularly in terms of clarifying the rules on the scope of projects or introducing more adequate rules or additional exemptions for selected categories of administrators, as well as clarifying the transitional rules. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the manipulation of libor and exchange rates by financial sector entities, banks and other investment funds has led to huge financial losses for both companies and individual investors in recent years. while financial regulators in europe have punished those who have manipulated these indicators with fines amounting to millions of euros, the losses suffered by investors require the adoption of eu-wide regulations to prevent such financial scandals in the future. the regulation under discussion today is moving in that direction and focuses on three objectives. first, to strengthen governance systems and standards, especially for widely used systemically important indicators (so-called 'critical indicators') and to reduce their vulnerability to manipulation and abuse. second, increase transparency by making more information available to users of all indicators to enable them to make informed decisions. finally, thirdly, maintaining the supply of and access to the various indicators by applying the requirements for their use in a proportionate manner. i would hope that the practical application of this regulation will contribute to a strong reduction in the financial sector's abuse of indicators.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 may 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the own-initiative report by mr pedra silva pereira, on behalf of the committee on development, on financing for development (2015/2044 (ini)) (a8-0143/2015)
mr. chairman, please! this year will be a watershed year in which the mdgs, which have been the basis of development cooperation for the past 15 years, will be repealed. they will be replaced by new targets. the continuation of official development assistance at 0.7% is expected to be discussed at the addis ababa conference in july this year as a key contribution to securing the ambitious outcome of the negotiations for the post-2015 period. the future sustainable development goals are to eliminate poverty by 2030. to do so, they must take into account the multipolar nature of the world, the changing geography of poverty, the impact of global challenges such as climate change and emerging security threats, disease outbreaks and armed conflicts, and the transformation of development finance. the european union has maintained its position as the world's leading donor of official development assistance in recent years, despite the difficult economic situation. however, we are still far from achieving our ambitious goals. i am therefore convinced that the search for innovative sources of development aid financing is a very important and important issue. one idea for these innovative sources of funding could be what is known as a micro solidarity contribution. some companies are already planning to use a percentage of the money they collect from advertisers to help with development. these initiatives have the potential to raise the funds needed relatively quickly, which is extremely important if we want to continue our achievements in health care, access to education, hygiene, clean water, the fight against malnutrition and environmental protection. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! of course, development is not only in the interest of the poor, but also in the interest of the rich. the world has become one big village. but development finance would be effective, it must be efficient, and you cannot have development finance efficiency without prioritizing. but when i read the report on development finance, it's hard to see the priorities: it talks about everything. this is actually a development strategy that could be assigned to any country and any organization, but it has to be set in very clear goals and very clear priorities. i would include, for example, education, because investing in human capital is, i think, the foundation of success in general, when it comes to developing the countries that we're talking about. secondly, the development of entrepreneurship, especially micro and small enterprises in these countries. implementing programmes that can be described as 'work for yourself and work for others' is something worth investing in. and third, civil society and a free media. i hardly read anything about free media in this report, and without civil society, without free media, there is no effective control, there is waste and corruption.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i can only very strongly support the calls for speed. we live in a time when europe is losing out to the united states, to asia, because it is moving slower. slowly than the others. we cannot wait until 2016 for the commission's action plan and programme. in this case, two good trends converge. new online businesses, small businesses, economic creativity - these are things that need to be particularly encouraged in europe. on the other hand, there is the cultural good. a book is a cultural asset, a specialist journal is a cultural asset that requires preferential treatment, so i demand not only simplification of procedures, but also a decisive reduction in taxes. the european commission should encourage member states, through its decisions, to reduce the tax burden on this highly creative and important industry.
mr. chairman, please! i can only join those who are happy that the digital single market strategy and the enormous commitment of president ansip will probably lead to the solution of many problems during our term of office. one of those challenges is that, according to all my observations and according to the eurobarometer, it is especially small and medium-sized enterprises that complain about vat. i recently spoke to a businessman who sells custom-made shirts to nine countries. it would be growing at a dizzying rate if it were not for the fact that vat, in every other country, is giving it so many problems. i do not know whether you are aware that traders who trade across borders are subject to over 60 different vat regimes. because not only is vat different in every country, but every product is different. this is how we move to publishing books and other content, such as magazines, newspapers, on paper or in electronic form. this is another barrier for producers, publishers and authors that does not raise the level of reading, another barrier that is complained about by virtually all consumers in the member states, and also by those who trade in these books and today it is no longer possible to separate the content in paper form from the content in electronic form. if we don't address this issue now, other media will soon come along with all of this. the content is important and it is important that the european citizen should be able to read it in the most open way possible. i therefore urge you once again: an agreement on a common vat in the european union, an agreement on this subject between the member states, should be our absolute priority.
mr president, too often we hear that the vat mini one-stop shop (moss) might be associated with the alleged negative influence of the new vat regime in which taxes are paid according to the place of consumption rather than the registered office of the provider. but vat moss is not the core of the problem that some companies claim to have. on the contrary, this is a solution which makes the life of companies easier: a company may register and settle its vat in one country through one platform and while contacting only one administration instead of having to deal with 28 administrations. it is, moreover, a solution that is optional for taxpayers; nobody is forced to use it. no better mechanism has been developed until now that makes the registration and settlement of vat issues in trans-border transactions easier. besides, vat moss is only four months old and it is still being improved. the commission has already started to assess the effectiveness of the vat moss platform. the new vat rules may indeed be problematic for some companies. let us emphasise however that the directive on the place of supply of services was approved by all member states and this parliament. member states have had seven years to adapt to the new vat rules. i strongly urge the commission to work on technical solutions to improve and facilitate the way smes can deal with the new vat rules and the use of vat moss. at the same time, i call on my colleagues in this house not to blame vat moss, an instrument aimed strictly at making companies’ lives easier, for every difficulty they may face with the vat regime.
mr. chairman, please! first, we need to change vat so that sales and the market adapt to digital change. secondly, we need to look at this mini one stop shop that came into effect earlier this year to see how it really affects the way small businesses operate. thirdly, we need simplification the single electronic registration and payment mechanisms announced in the digital single market strategy are a good move. and fourthly, we need a uniform price for books, both paper and electronic, but let's not forget newspapers. european newspapers will not survive the process of adapting to the digital world and becoming competitive unless we treat them like books, with this flat rate. and finally, the most important problem is that you have to distinguish between service and product, or see them together, so... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i welcomed the fact that the proposed strategy included the requirement to introduce the same reduced vat rates for online and offline works. this is certainly a mechanism that can facilitate access to european works, improve their circulation and stimulate the development of new services and platforms. the same reduced vat rates can also help e-book sales, which in turn can allow smaller businesses to survive in the market with large publishers. the introduction of the same reduced vat rates is a very positive move on the part of the european commission. this element was one of the recommendations i made in my report on european cinema in the digital age, as it is crucial to facilitate the production, distribution, accessibility and attractiveness of european films. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! when i was a kid, i was taught that the soviet union was the fastest growing country in the world, and i knew where america was growing because that's where the skyscrapers were being built. it's a good indicator of economic growth. where are the skyscrapers being built today? let's see. in africa, in casablanca, in morocco, a skyscraper is being built at 640 meters. what about europe? in europe, the tallest skyscraper has half that. there are ten skyscrapers over 1,000 feet in europe, seven in moscow, one in istanbul, one in frankfurt, one in london, which is about to leave the european union. under the occupation of the european union we become a scandal, we become a scandal, we do not develop, children are not born, the economy does not develop, therefore i think that the european union must be destroyed. therefore i think the european union must be destroyed.
thank you very much. thank you. deindustrialisation is a major cause of unemployment in the union due to the shift of low value added production to third countries. in the former eastern bloc, hostile takeovers were the reason for this, as a result of the hasty, businesslike privatisation of state-owned industry. many modern factories with design offices, research centers were taken over and then liquidated by multinational corporations, eliminating competition. the reindustrialisation of poland therefore requires other, more complex solutions. however, the relativisation of the share of industry in polish gdp by current policy makers is not encouraging. they downplay the two and a half million emigrants and the one and a half million unemployed. only the production potential, whose share of poland's gdp would correspond to the average gdp of the union in 2020, is the only real chance for my country by using eu funds to create the necessary jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! free elections are not just about a fair vote count. free elections are above all a fair election campaign. the same applies - perhaps even more so - to the referendum. and that is why we must speak out about the worrying signals that are coming to us three days before the irish referendum - about the signals about the freedom of this referendum. contrary to irish law, and specifically the supreme court's rulings, there is no question of respecting the equality of the parties in the referendum debate. publicly funded political parties threaten to expel from their party members who oppose homosexual rehabilitation. in the public media, let alone the private media, there is only one side that is dominant - the one that supports the overthrow of the current law. there have been very serious cases of employers encouraging their employees to engage on the homosexual side of this referendum. what does all this have to do with democracy?
member of the commission.– mr president, this is an important occasion to debate a very important issue, namely how to eliminate conflict minerals from our supply chains. by doing so, we will reduce the great hardship, endless wars and human rights abuses that have traditionally come with them. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr winkler, the committee on international trade (inta), the other committees and all the members who have been active in working on this issue. one of the challenges in trade policy is to harness the potential of our economies while creating effective systems to avoid negative consequences, like the one we are discussing today. this challenge is particularly acute in developing countries, and the issue of conflict minerals is one of the most glaring examples. on the one hand, we do need a global market-based approach to raw materials that provides developing countries with a vital source of stable income through trade in natural resources. on the other hand, we need to break the link between minerals and conflict, the most obvious example of which is the conflict in the great lakes region in africa. the situation there is horrific. millions of people have been killed and millions more injured and traumatised since the outbreak of the first congo war in the mid-1990s. while congo is the most dramatic example of the phenomenon, it is not the only one. therefore, following calls for action by the united states, the g8 and this parliament, based on the work of the oecd, the commission developed, jointly with the high representative, an integrated approach. the draft regulation we are discussing here today is only one of its components. i insist on this integrated approach because it is crucial to understand – and i know you all do – that there is no silver bullet to deal with this problem. it is by nature multidimensional and extremely complicated. so we must look at it from different angles – development, political, the trade perspective – all at the same time. the size of europe’s trade footprint is such that businesses here must play their part. the eu is amongst the world’s largest importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold ores and concentrates, with a share of almost 35% of global trade. the eu is also a relatively large importer of tin, tantalum and tungsten and gold metals which presently represent almost 25% and 15% of global trade respectively. but precisely because of our importance in trade, we can also make things worse if we do not approach it in the right way. if we impose a mandatory scheme without making sure that the conditions on the ground in the conflict regions are right in order to support the implementation of such a system, we do run a high risk of further disrupting global supply chains and driving them away from africa altogether. we also risk creating trade diversion, resulting in prejudice against individual countries, or even the whole continent, and that would lead to plummeting prices for minerals from certain origins. we can also risk continuing to have thriving underground markets in conflict and high-risk areas and a prosperous smuggling sector. we can also create a severe shortage in the eu for companies that are – most of the time – willing, but unable, to check their supply chains effectively, and we will have achieved nothing on the ground since we will have placed fragile mining areas and local communities under additional pressure from international markets. if you do not believe me, you can have a look at the situation in the great lakes region since the us mandatory scheme in the dodd-frank act came into effect. the difficulties there are described in united nations reports year after year. the commission proposal has taken these key considerations into account, following an in-depth impact assessment exercise. our plan is focused, proportionate and designed to complement the other components of the integrated approach. our proposal focuses on smelters and refiners. until they know where they source their minerals from, we cannot reasonably ask the majority of downstream companies to know. many of them might be tempted to lie. it will include responsible smelters and refiners in the eu and worldwide on a white list and consequently a ‘name and shame’ system for those that do not appear on it. there are no more than 40 smelters in the eu. how many of them do you think are able not to appear on that list? there will be a lot of pressure from you, from ngos and from other business. i would argue not a single one. moreover, the commission proposal sets up an enforcement structure to be deployed by member states’ competent authorities to ensure that operators claiming to be responsible are truly so. it also includes a strong review clause to open the possibility for switching – in a staged manner – to a mandatory approach in the event that the current proposal does not deliver. it operates in parallel to the eur 20 million package that the high representative and the commission have announced to further support capacity building in conflict regions. so i think this voluntary, incentives-based approach, integrated for responsible sourcing, is the most appropriate one to achieve the common goal that we have here. i thank you for this possibility to debate it and am looking forward to the debate.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. tomorrow's vote on the report by mr winkler, for whom i was an expert on behalf of the committee on development, gives members of the european parliament an opportunity to take an important first step towards breaking the link between mining and trading in minerals and the financing of armed groups, militias and wars. the creation of a responsible mineral trade market in the eu countries offers hope for improving the situation of the inhabitants of the regions from which these minerals are extracted. therefore, the flow of information at each stage of the supply chain is important: from extraction to the final product. in my opinion, i proposed obligations for the upstream, in particular refiners, smelters and importers, and due diligence for the downstream, in line with oecd guidelines. it is necessary to take account of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which often lack sufficient resources. the committee on development and cooperation considers that accompanying measures are very important to ensure that cooperation with developing countries continues. i welcome the fact that the commission is allocating 20 million for accompanying measures and i hope that it will present a draft of these measures soon.
mr president, i have a few points to make. first of all, the scope of the regulation should stay untouched; we should not go beyond the fight for proposed minerals and metals. secondly, i also support the proposed definitions of minerals and metals. as for the idea of certification, it must be ensured that the certification within each jurisdiction is recognised. the lack of mutual recognition can lead to a double reporting obligation. i should emphasise that impositions on european companies covered by the regulation – excessive legal obligation – can lead to the loss of competitiveness in relation to businesses operating outside of the eu. obviously, the main objective of the draft regulation is to reduce the financing of armed groups and to prevent the security forces from profiting from the exploitation of these minerals from high-risk areas. but the proposed measure to achieve this objective must support and further promote the responsible sourcing of these minerals, and we should exclude companies from financing the previously mentioned companies. this cannot, however, be done at the expense of the law-abiding european companies. we have to make sure that those who abide by the law are not affected in a negative sense.
mr. chairman, please! the stated objective of the digital single market is to unlock the full potential of european industry and to enable consumers to have better access to goods and services. these are very important objectives, but europeans are not only producers and consumers, and digital technologies are not only about trade in goods, but also about cultural content that is linked to our national and individual identity. and in the field of culture, you can't just accept the principle of competitiveness, of efficiency, of the strongest winning, of mass consumption. in the cultural field, we cannot renounce state patronage, the protection of identity, the promotion of our cultures, including territorial copyright. we also need to be aware that the development of the internet also has negative cultural effects - leading to, for example, language depletion, loss of ability to read long, complex texts, etc. this should also be taken into account in the european digital strategy.
mr. chairman, mr. chairman ansip, i'm not going to let you down. the digital single market is certainly a great step towards the future of the digital union, because we imagine that we could propose a digital union during this term. from the point of view of the itre committee, which i chair, the most important things are actually three or four things in the commission's communication. first, the deployment of the internet of things and cloud computing will be crucial for industrial competitiveness. standardization or interoperability will really give us economies of scale and allow europe to win the global competition. and finally, and this is very important, online platforms. first, to understand their functioning, their meaning, and then to regulate and create a special framework for such activities. i agree with the commission on this point, but, mr vice-president, we still have a problem with the telecommunications market. the package is not yet implemented, nor have we concluded negotiations, and this is the basis of our common digital market and both the stopping of roaming charges and the spectrum issue. i call on all member states to take a decision on this matter. how can we talk about a digital single market if the telecommunications package is not complete? and i also appeal to all the colleagues from the various committees we have 10-11 committees implementing the digital single market we need to respond quickly and efficiently to the commission's communication.
firstly, the digital single market is today - i think - the leading topic in the european commission, the european parliament and the council. as jacques delors, the great head of the european commission, was said to have had the creation of a single european market as a driving force, so the juncker commission has introduced the digital single market as a driving force for a more integrated union and more dynamic action. let this also be a strong message to the europeans. this is a highly political issue. the theme of the single market and the digital single market cannot be separated in the 21st century. we have a single european market, whether it's digital or physical. i therefore join all those who say: we will support the commissioner, please strengthen us in the fight with the council to finally deal with issues that have become a symbol of the european union, such as the unfortunate abolition of roaming. let's embrace the leadership in sharing economies, because otherwise we're going to have 28 different pieces of legislation that we're going to have a very hard time trying to merge. and the last point: i agree with my colleague on the left: digital exclusion is a big challenge. everyone must be involved in the operation of the digital economy, otherwise our economy and our stronger political integration will not move forward.
in writing. i would like to congratulate commissioner andrus ansip on the work he has done to initiate the creation of regulations for the future digital single market in europe. the development of the digital market brings with it enormous growth opportunities, also measured by new jobs. this brings with it enormous opportunities, but also many challenges. the digitisation of traditional industries and the creation of new services also mean the need to develop new skills. the rapidly expanding internet of things and online platforms require specialist knowledge and, given the current shortage of skilled labour in this area, there is an urgent need to create the appropriate facilities for this type of education. for young people who choose this type of profession, and for those who have lost their jobs and are forced to retrain. i hope that the commission will draw up such a plan for investing in education and human resources development, together with an analysis of its impact on society and its impact on the labour market. i wonder how much credibility we will have in the eyes of the public, after we announced with a bang a year ago that roaming charges would be abolished by the end of 2015, but the matter is stuck in the council and parliament cannot get a concrete answer.
in writing. i thank the commission for presenting its digital single market strategy. this is an important step towards unlocking the potential of digital technologies and creating new opportunities for europeans in areas as diverse as employment, innovation and consumer policy. in the process of creating the digital single market, it is necessary to ensure that it serves all union citizens, including older people, people with disabilities, people in material need or those under-represented in the labour market. only such a market will create a knowledge-based society that develops equally, with benefits for all citizens. the digital world must reflect the current social and societal priorities. we also need to ensure consumer protection and freedom of business in the digital age. these challenges require a clear and personalised action plan and training for different groups in society that will meet their expectations, meet their needs and provide them with new opportunities to thrive in the digital age. the plan must include ensuring that every european has access to the internet, ensuring that they are protected online by improving the security of new technologies and electronic communications, and creating a digital services environment that is friendly to them, based on competitive and fair rules. it is also important to ensure consistency between the actions undertaken under the digital single market strategy, the eu 2020 strategy and the juncker plan. these key union projects should be coherent and complementary.
in writing. the digital single market, the internet, is first and foremost a gigantic business, and it is not impersonal, owned by specific individuals and specific business groups. europe is definitely not keeping up with the regulatory pace of new technologies. i'm not surprised. the commission is also concerned about the debate yesterday. for example, we all agree that vat on e-books should be at a preferential rate. as minister of culture, i have been calling for a change in the qualifications of reading on new media (including newspapers) for many years, together with my fellow ministers from many eu countries. the result is that we're still in the same spot. how are we to deal with the content blocks that are being built on the borders that have been abolished but still exist in europe, when simple issues take so many years of work? the pace of the digital single market is not optimistic. i know that the result of the current work is to be regulations ending in almost a dozen new pieces of legislation. let's not create a situation of omnipotent expectations. let us tackle the case by case: sending packages, receiving tv signals wherever they are received, ending the roaming problem, fighting the exclusion of citizens from accessing certain internet services, but one by one. but at the same time, let's remember that cybersecurity is a business that has owners. they should be visible partners, beneficiaries, but they should also be quality guarantors.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of today's vote in favour of the conclusion of the convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access, which creates a common legal framework to protect services covering both traditional television and radio broadcasting and internet broadcasting. the legal systems of many non-eu countries in europe do not cover the consequences of the development and dissemination of conditional access-based piracy devices. it is therefore essential to extend the provisions of the 1998 directive and to create a common and effective european framework for the protection of these services. as established by the court of justice, the relevant legal basis for the decision to sign the convention is article 207 tfeu on the common commercial policy, which falls within the exclusive competence of the union. for this reason, the possibility of concluding the convention on behalf of the union has been called into question, as the union is not a member of the council of europe. however, i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to agree to the conclusion of this convention and to extend the framework provided for in directive 98/84/ec to areas outside the union, thus combating the threats to protected services.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's legislative resolution on a regulation that would regulate the use of indicators in financial instruments and contracts. the financial crisis that europe found itself in after 2008 showed that one of its causes was the manipulation of exchange rates and libor rates. it was assumed that over time the financial market would correct these irregularities. it was deceptive, it led to market chaos and it encouraged speculation. and as a result, it hits the bank's customers. therefore, in my view, including indicators in the regulated business and not subjecting them to market manipulation alone is essential to restoring customer confidence in financial markets. the published indicators, which are so important for borrowers, for example, must be transparent. the point is not only to make these indicators known to the public but also to make the methods used to determine exchange rates and libor known to the public. this will promote predictability and build confidence in financial markets, which is crucial for investors and borrowers. that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr pereira on financing for development. there is no doubt that the ambitious challenges that the new sustainable development goals set out to address must have a strong foundation in the form of adequate levels of funding. however, we must also bear in mind that, inter alia, due to the economic crisis, very few member states are currently able to meet the commitment to allocate 0.7% (or 0.33% for new member states) of gross national income to official development assistance. given the different economic situations in the member states and the different development policy traditions, i believe that it is right to treat the 0.7% gnp target for development policy as a global target for the whole of the european union rather than as a differentiated target for individual member states. i also believe that it is particularly important to ensure that the aid provided is of the highest possible added value and is as effective as possible. in this context, it is necessary to respect the commitments set out in the pusan partnership.
in writing. ‒ billions of people still live in poverty, without access to healthcare and education. there is also a continuing trend towards the marginalisation of activities for women, children, the elderly and the disabled. the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) estimates that nearly $4 billion a year is needed to achieve the sustainable development goals. although the european union remains the world's largest donor of development aid, we need to step up our efforts and focus our efforts to deliver tangible benefits. i support the position presented in the document to focus not only on the quantity but also on the quality of development aid. in the fight for human rights and gender equality, we must not forget about access to the most basic services: sanitation and energy infrastructure, education, health care and basic social services. coherence with other policy areas (such as environmental protection and agriculture) is also needed. supporting young, enterprising people, fostering innovation and investing in new technologies will ensure economic growth. the document also highlights the positive impact of migration from ldcs: ldcs usually send money to their families, indirectly supporting local development in their home countries. only peace and security can guarantee sustainable development. let's help those who need help.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report. development is a fundamental issue, especially for the poorest countries. international investment, education and civil society, the equitable distribution of goods, health care, fair trade relations - all these are conducive to development and should be supported. the european union has an important role to play here, as do other international organisations. but when we talk about economic development, we cannot lose sight of social and ethical issues. the ideology that infects every aspect of politics is also invading here. the linking of development issues with human sexuality is just such a negative manifestation of the influence of ideology. not only does it distort the picture and distract from the real causes of the present situation in third world countries, but it also creates a false cause and effect relationship between abortion and economic development. such reasoning is wrong. development that is divorced from humanism and human rights never leads to lasting success. the right to life is undoubtedly a human right and should be protected without reservation. development that is divorced from humanism and human rights never leads to lasting success. the right to life is undoubtedly a human right and should be protected without reservation.
in writing. ‒ healthcare is often the biggest pain point for many countries and the biggest pain point for patients. it is very difficult to create a system that satisfies the needs of patients, doctors and health care workers. and health is the most important thing. so when a patient is sick, he wants to be in the best hands, in the best care, in the best conditions. these expectations are not always met, and sometimes, as a result of various circumstances, the patient suffers additional damage to his health. the situation is not the same in all member states and standards of care vary in many respects, so our task is to work towards a level playing field in the provision of medical services to prevent accidents. today, in various lands, we are faced with many neglectful and dangerous practices. criticisms include the replacement of educated staff with less educated but cheaper labour, and the excessive and unjustified use of antibiotics. the need for a uniform standard is particularly important with open borders and treatment options across the union. it is also agreed that health policy is not a good source of savings and we should prevent any possible reduction in health funding.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on health protection in europe. in the context of this report, i would like to highlight two aspects, namely the funding of research and the use of the health infrastructure created by eu funding. firstly, health research, as the report rightly points out, is one of the objectives of horizon 2020. unfortunately, due to the planned cuts in the funding of this programme to the esi fund, there is a risk that these studies will not receive the appropriate financial support. already, only 8% of applications for a given health research project stand a chance of receiving the appropriate funding or grant. further reductions in the budget of horizon 2020 risk that an even smaller proportion of good r&i projects in basic and applied research will have a chance to receive financial support. secondly, i call on the commission to support and monitor the functioning of the health infrastructure created by eu funds. in poland, thanks to european support, one of the most modern medical research facilities has been established, which unfortunately cannot reach its full potential due to a number of financial and legal constraints associated with the commercial use of this type of infrastructure. it is therefore essential to monitor such projects and take action to support implementation.
in writing. ‒ healthcare systems in the eu should be guided by the best interests of the patient. while this may seem obvious, we sometimes see various kinds of actions that indirectly contradict this principle. looking for savings in areas that directly affect the quality of treatment can lead to undesirable effects. many of these undesirable factors can be eliminated, but it is necessary to ensure that the sector has a sufficient number of qualified professionals who must be provided with the appropriate working conditions to be able to perform their duties effectively. hygiene is also a major concern - in this area we sometimes see staff being laid off to save money. however, it should be remembered that such savings are illusory, since any compromise that hospitals make in the area of cleanliness can result in health complications for patients, which cost much more to combat than the cost of maintaining hygiene.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on increasing opportunities for smes in relation to green growth because i believe that the green economy sector will be dynamic and its potential for business must be well exploited. smes are a pillar of the european economy, employing 68% of the eu workforce, and are well able to adapt to change; they are open to new, innovative solutions. unfortunately, they still have less access to finance than large companies. the cost of obtaining loans and the complex and time-consuming procedures for applying for financing are both a major burden for small businesses. i therefore consider it a priority for the commission and the member states to support smes in their access to financial instruments so that they can implement green and ecological investments and innovative solutions. to this end, procedures should be simplified to the greatest possible extent and advisory and technical support for companies should be introduced in the application process. synergies and complementarity between cohesion policy funds, cosme and horizon 2020 are also needed to maximise the environmental potential of smes. the new european fund for strategic investments can also provide an opportunity for green innovation through public-private partnerships.
in writing. ‒ europeans are becoming more aware of the dangers of pollution and are also more health-conscious and lifestyle-oriented. as conscious consumers, they choose the most environmentally friendly solutions and support green businesses. these companies are already the driving force of the economy, but at the same time, moving towards a greener future is a unique opportunity for them. 'greening' products, production processes, business practices and business services requires a lot of new solutions and money, so it is a big challenge for such small businesses. it is our job as leaders to facilitate and streamline this process. research should be made possible to develop innovative technologies and to acquire relevant knowledge. it is also necessary to create a system of subsidising enterprises that take the initiative to enable them to introduce innovative solutions that will benefit society as a whole. to realise the full potential of the green economy, we should first of all ensure that there is a regulatory and legal framework that makes it easier for businesses to take up this challenge.
in writing. ‒ smes are the engine of the european economy, representing 99% of all eu companies and responsible for 85% of new jobs created in the last five years. in order to ensure long-term economic growth in europe and create sustainable jobs, smes need to be guaranteed the best possible conditions to operate within the european single market. moreover, smes can also play a key role in turning growing environmental challenges into significant economic opportunities. however, in order to make this possible, a number of measures should be introduced to minimise the administrative burden resulting from both the new and the existing regulations. only then will smes be able to compete in the global economy with those outside the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the report, which calls for concrete action to increase opportunities for smes in the context of green economic growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. madam high representative/vice-president of the european commission! i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their hard, innovative work, which is undoubtedly a valuable contribution to the debate ahead of the important european council meeting in june on the common security and defence policy. it is difficult to deal with all the issues raised, so let me concentrate on paragraph 42 of the arnaud danjean report, which raises the need for increased spending, for the member states of the european union to increase their defence burdens in order to achieve the objectives set by nato, namely to reach 2% of gdp (in the case of several countries this is already more than 2% of gdp), but also to allocate 20% of the expenditure incurred to important defence objectives, to the main armaments and also to research and development. my people, my countrymen, and the representatives of the societies of other central and eastern european countries, saw integration into the european union not only as a step towards prosperity but also as an additional aspect of increased security. so we also care about this component of the functioning of the european union, but we think that we need a higher culture, a higher willingness to cooperate in bearing the burdens, a common perception of the threats that we face - whether it's the south and the terrorism that threatens our territories or the russian federation. these matters must be our primary consideration.
madam president! given that the union has no armies, these considerations are like impotent advice on how to make babies. fortunately, there has been no danger for a long time: in all the countries i know, weapons are made in order to develop the economy of a region, to take as large a bribe as possible for weapons. even in these reports, as we shall see, there is not a word about how to give the best weapons to the soldiers. we just see which region will make how much money and what will develop. it would be a shame, but luckily we're still safe. of course, if one day vladimir putin changes his policy from imperial to national or the nationalists overthrow mr. putin, well, estonia, latvia, maybe even lithuania may feel threatened, but that's a problem for nato, not for the european union. so i think the european union should be destroyed.
the policy and development of the european union should be governed by a simple principle: the institutions share as much common competences as common values. the paradox is that in an age when we have talked so much about a common security and defence policy, a common foreign policy, we have, as a community, abandoned those projects which were supposed to strengthen our security. i'm talking about things like the nabucco pipeline being abandoned. it was a european project to free central europe from its dependence on russian energy resources. we must always remember that the only reason for our cooperation is to strengthen the independence of our countries. without it, all they'll have left is their disability. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president, madam high commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. a secure europe is more a postulate than a reality. this is primarily because europe has been safe for years: it has been economically prosperous, free from direct threats. secondly, it is the time of crisis that has caused savings, and most of the time these savings are primarily made in defence, but also in culture, for example. today we know that looking for savings in security, in defense, is a mistake. i'm not convinced by such very simple demands to increase defense spending to two percent of gdp. that's not good enough. it is important to know where these funds will be allocated and what cooperation between the european defence industry, and defence in particular, will look like, but it is also important to know how these expenditures will be built up in individual european countries. i would like to thank mr arnaud danjean very much, because his report, in my opinion, is extremely specific, extremely precise, very economical in terms of words, but very precise in terms of diagnosis. i am also pleased that one of my demands has been included in this report - the demand to take account of the importance of the galileo and copernicus satellite systems. it's important to me today to move from these reports to action.
in writing. we are seeing a growing number of situations that are leading to a deterioration in the level of security both within the union and in its immediate neighbourhood. the political and economic instability in eastern and southern europe and the growing terrorist threat within the community are causing anxiety among its citizens. in this context, it is appropriate to step up efforts to strengthen the common security and defence policy (csdp). over the past years, the level of funding for csdp missions has decreased, there are delays in the execution of contracts, and difficulties in recruiting new staff and retaining experienced, qualified staff. it is therefore necessary to establish an appropriate strategic framework that takes into account effective cooperation between member states and allows for coordinated, long-term action to be planned and for a rapid response to potential threats. the functioning of defence companies should also be addressed: appropriate legal and financial systems will improve their competitiveness and the smooth implementation of projects. increasing the transparency of procurement will allow for democratic control and increase the credibility of the authorities. in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the citizens of europe should be guaranteed peace and security. mutual trust and harmonisation of activities, a sustainable system of resource management, security of supply are essential elements of an efficient and coherent defence market. solidarity and joint initiatives are the eu's greatest strength.
in writing. the common security and defence policy has been in place for 16 years. common unfortunately mainly in declarations. it was not a threat in a stable europe and in a stable environment of europe. unfortunately, in recent years, this environment has changed very dynamically. moreover, it is changing to the negative. the deepening crisis in the south and east is a growing threat to the european union. the problem is that the eu's response to these threats is too weak and generally too delayed, as we clearly see today with the wave of illegal migrants trying to reach europe every day. the individual countries of the european union cannot meet these threats alone. i am strongly in favour of increasing the role and the financial resources of the common security and defence policy. we need less declarations and more cooperation, more real military and civilian capabilities at the disposal of the european union.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask mrs harms, because you spoke so beautifully about values in relation to the immigrant debate, why we don't hear in this room an equally passionate, emotional discussion about what is happening in germany. as you know, in recent months we have had a series of arson attacks on the homes of asylum seekers, we have had protests from the population of the cities, and so on. you know exactly what the situation is in germany and how socially unacceptable the current movement of immigrants is. that should be a subject for discussion, but i don't see anyone here who wants to discuss the situation in france or germany. but we're very happy to deal with a country like hungary.
i won't talk about the death penalty, because it's just a pretext for attacking hungary, and we've heard it a few times very clearly. mr timmermans quoted article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights, and he did not quote it exactly, because the first paragraph of that article clearly states that the principle of the european union should be respect for life, for the right to life. this right to life is widely denied in most european union countries. mr. chairman, please! do you remember that at the time the treaties of rome were signed, there was not a single democratic state in europe that would tolerate the killing of the unborn? if you are so passionate about excluding and triggering article 7 of the treaty on european union, why don't you trigger it first against yourself.
mr. chairman, please! in 2004, following the madrid attacks, the member states of the european union committed themselves to do everything in their power to combat the financing of terrorism, both terrorist acts and terrorist networks. sadly, since then, the threat of terrorism has not diminished. the legal, administrative and financial instruments have proved inadequate. that is why i regard tomorrow's vote on the package to combat terrorist financing as a real milestone in the functioning of the european union. i'd like to thank everyone who helped make it happen.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. ladies and gentlemen! in this age of terrorist financing and money laundering, these things are becoming more and more of a problem. i am pleased that the proposed legislative package takes into account the wide range of tasks that lie both with the european commission and with the member states' authorities and institutions to counter these phenomena. i believe that the areas in need of particular reinforcement have been well identified, especially as patterns of criminal activity are constantly changing. however, in all this, particular care should be taken with regard to the costs of the actions, and the principle of proportionality and rationalisation should be followed, as well as the payment service providers, for whom certain actions could seriously impede the provision of those services. it is also important that the guidance resulting from the protection of the international financial system and on the implementation of possible actions at national level is uniform and consistent. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i am in favour of a sparing regulation, but on this issue, the fight against money laundering, i have no doubt that the european union should not hesitate to introduce effective regulation. we need to be decisive, first in creating organizational tools to fight money laundering and i have to say that i am not only happy that a register of actual owners is being created, but i also do not share the belief that it is to threaten privacy. let us not hesitate to create instruments that combat the worst forms of crime, in this case money laundering. let's not use the privacy argument. and finally, we need to implement what we have adopted. unfortunately, in many countries, the international recommendations of the un, the council of europe on combating money laundering, confiscation of property are not yet implemented. i'd like the commission to keep an eye on it and... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the money laundering practice known for years is mainly linked to the functioning of organised crime. this phenomenon affects the international financial system and the world economy. the united nations office on drugs and crime, in its 2011 research report, estimated that the annual value of the proceeds from this crime could be as high as 2.7% of global gdp and is estimated to increase every year. this is facilitated by the process of globalisation, the complexity of world markets and technological developments, as well as the free movement of capital and the diversity of financial instruments. this is undoubtedly facilitated by the anonymity and confidentiality of the bank's customer data, which in online banking services in particular facilitates the concealment of sources of income. and these sources, in addition to organized crime, also finance global terrorism. the commission of terrorist attacks usually requires considerable financial expenditure both in preparation and execution. therefore, i hope that the proposed registries to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing will prove to be an effective way of limiting the ability of criminal and terrorist groups to operate and will pave the way for further improvements in the system for combating crime.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! the insolvency regulation, which entered into force in 2002 in all member states of the union except denmark, governs the rules on the choice of law applicable to the proceedings and the recognition of judgments. since the regulation adopted so many years ago proved insufficient in the context of the economic crisis and the bankruptcy of many companies in the union, we started work in the european parliament during the last term of office to amend this regulation. the report was drawn up by our colleague klaus-heiner lehne and provided an excellent basis for the subsequent negotiations with the council already underway during this term. the positions of our two institutions were close to each other and, most importantly, we shared a common objective: to create a legal framework for crossborder insolvency proceedings that would, on the one hand, give creditors a chance to be satisfied, but on the other hand, allow these honest entrepreneurs to undertake proper restructuring and thus prevent the bankruptcy of businesses and the loss of jobs. the main objective of the reform was to try to limit the so-called bankruptcy tourism. the european court of justice has pointed out that there are no adequate safeguards against this type of procedure under the insolvency regulation. the interpretation of the term 'principal place of business' (comi) is relevant here, since it is necessary to determine the jurisdiction of the court competent to open insolvency proceedings. a change of jurisdiction entails the need to pursue your claims in a court in another country. this in turn leads to proceedings in a different language and under different procedural rules, which in turn leads to a lengthier process, higher costs and less legal certainty. it seems that in the present situation legal certainty in the european union's trade is extremely important to us. in order to eliminate the possibility of forum shopping, parliament therefore proposed that the following solution be introduced into the definition of comi: a three-month transitional period during which the debtor company cannot open insolvency proceedings after it has moved its registered office to another country. the other deadline, namely six months, was adopted in the case of consumer bankruptcy. this difference is due to a very important fact. well, it's much easier to transfer to a natural person than a legal entity. in the case of a consumer bankruptcy within this six-month period, the debtor has the burden of proving that his principal place of residence is where he declared it. secondly, we have proposed a new system of coordination of insolvency for a group of companies, which will be an optional instrument, i.e. non-compulsory. within 30 days of receipt of the notification of the request to open the coordination procedure, the trustee of each of the companies may decide to exercise the opt-out and exit from coordination if he considers that it would be in the interest of the company he represents. the effectiveness and efficiency of this mechanism will be examined five years after the entry into force of the amendments to the regulation. and thirdly, there is the establishment - which i think is very important - of a european insolvency register, which will allow the monitoring of insolvency proceedings throughout the european union. i am convinced that this register will prove very useful for both citizens and eu businesses. i would like to take this opportunity to thank very warmly the council, especially the italian presidency, and my colleagues and counter-rapporteurs, and in particular mr cofferati, for their excellent cooperation. thank you very much. thank you.
the rapporteur. i too would like to join in thanking all the colleagues who have agreed to take part in this debate today, which is very important. i am sorry to say that when we are talking about real legislative solutions - and the introduction of a regulation is a real legislative change in the european union, affecting the substance of the matter, the lives of european union citizens and the functioning of businesses - this debate takes place late at night. and when we have a discussion club, when we just exchange views and opinions, it takes us sometimes all the meetings until noon and i think it would be worth changing something here. but back to the point. first of all, we can be pleased that these changes, which we will confirm tomorrow by voting in the european parliament, will significantly help the functioning of european businesses, those which have failed not because of dishonesty or total incompetence, but because of various kinds of events, a mixture of various kinds of causes. and for that reason, we can be happy, because when it comes to this business failure, it seems like we're on the right track. but it was clear from that discussion that in the case of consumer bankruptcy, we have a lot to do. and here i am pleased with commissioner jourová's announcement of further legislative action, but above all with one fact that you wanted to raise in your speech from awareness-raising activities. because it is a huge role that the european commission and the member states should play in making their citizens aware of the legal instruments that we are putting at their disposal, what we should be aware of, what we should pay particular attention to, because very often mistakes are made out of ignorance, and ignorance can be minimized by us - at least to a certain extent - and make it possible for both citizens and businesses to use the instruments that they already have and to draw our attention to the things that we should still be concerned about. once again, i want to thank you all very much.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the deep demographic crisis is affecting europe, and in particular my homeland of poland. this calls for decisive action to provide real support for motherhood and the family. while the member states are primarily responsible for family policy, the european union can and should support good solutions. the parliament's proposal to extend maternity leave to 20 weeks is the desired solution, not because it is intended to increase the employment of women, as the resolution we are voting on tomorrow suggests, but because it will help to solve a much more serious problem of europe's ageing societies. without a coherent and comprehensive family policy, we will not be able to meet the aspirations of young people who want to start a family and have children. we cannot stop the demographic crisis and the associated problem of ageing of our societies. we need to invest in the family and to value women who, by raising future citizens, contribute to building strong societies and the common good. i therefore ask the council to explain the reasons for blocking the maternity leave directive for five years, which was supported by a large majority in parliament at first reading.
in writing. legislation to ensure a better balance between family and working life is of paramount importance, especially in the face of our ageing continent and the low growth rates in most european countries. i regret that the council has blocked the directive on maternity leave. the member states should now return to the negotiating table as soon as possible. the commission should do its utmost to break the deadlock and find a compromise between parliament's and the council's positions. in poland, the provisions on the length of maternity leave and the payment of maternity leave are more favourable to mothers and fathers than those proposed in the directive. i hope that the ep resolution will encourage other member states' governments to adopt similar measures. young people in europe want to start families, but at present most of them are not in a position to do so. our role as meps is to make laws that encourage young people to start families.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i'm not going to let you get away with this. i am very pleased and grateful that, despite the late hour, this debate is taking place and is being conducted in such a serious tone. at the same time, i would like to congratulate and thank my colleagues in the disability intergroup for bringing this debate to a successful conclusion today. i believe that the key issue for the implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the european union is to enable persons with disabilities to declare a judgment on disability in a uniform manner throughout europe. of course, we cannot imagine that there is a uniform case law on disability in europe today, but we already have a good idea, and have had it for many years, which allows these judgments to be recognised by the member states. the european disability card is the european disability card. it will enable those eu citizens affected by disability to enjoy their civil rights. i would like to ask the commissioner, in the presence of the commissioner, whether the commission considers that this solution will be an important step towards implementing the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and whether the commission envisages its implementation as soon as possible.
in writing. this convention is an important step towards equal opportunities for people with disabilities. the document discusses the rights of disabled people, the role of their representatives and the structures involved. there are some 80 million disabled people in the eu and one in six europeans has a disability. the european barrier strategy of 2010 aims to make europe a continent without barriers by 2020. adopted in poland in 1997 the charter of the disabled identifies the key areas where intensive action is needed to ensure that people with disabilities do not feel discriminated against. the so-called 'black paper' describes, among other things, architectural, technical barriers in education and workplaces and transport barriers. in recent months, polish railways has introduced legislation to help disabled people board and disembark trains. however, there is concern about the lack of financial security for carers of disabled people, which is most often the case for women who give up their professional work to care for a disabled person. unfortunately, there are now efforts to reduce even more the low level of benefits. the junior programme, which has been positively evaluated, is a vocational activation programme for disabled graduates, enabling them to undertake work placements and subsequently to enter employment. the new version of the unesco information text, entitled 'you have rights', has been translated in a child-friendly way.
in writing. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, drawn up in new york on 13 december 2006, is the first international legal instrument that comprehensively addresses the rights of persons with disabilities. it is about promoting, protecting and ensuring the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities and promoting respect for their inherent dignity. despite the growing educational and organisational activities in many eu countries, there are still many barriers that prevent the realisation of basic aspirations, such as the possibility of full participation in civic and social life. therefore, it is appropriate to introduce an obligation to remove all obstacles that hinder the full and effective participation of persons with disabilities in society on an equal basis with others. the implementation of such regulations should also be monitored and the adopted provisions should be made publicly available to all citizens.
in writing.– it is estimated that around 80 million people in the european union have a disability. it should be one of our top priorities as members of the european parliament to ensure that the equal rights, dignity, equal treatment and full participation of persons with disabilities in society is a fact and not a mere wish. as members of the committee on petitions, we receive plenty of cases dealing with discrimination on the grounds of disability in access to employment, self-employment, public services and education. according to the eu agency for fundamental rights, discrimination and barriers while exercising their rights are part of everyday life for persons with disabilities. it is essential to underline that this is not a homogeneous group and therefore the policies and actions should reflect the various needs of women, children or people who need more intense support. furthermore, i am hopeful that the commission is going to take this matter deeply into consideration and will come up with an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, ensuring the full involvement of persons with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle while having regard to the proper level of accessibility to goods and services for all european citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the vast majority of my speakers represent countries -- let's be honest -- that for centuries owed a lot to colonies, whose economic position was stronger than other european countries because they had colonies. today, these immigrants are a percentage of the profits that these countries, the countries of the old union, had from the colonies. i speak as a historian, and i want you to accept the truth that interest is a must. that's the first one. second, my country took in many thousands of chechens after russia invaded the country. just last year, 6,844 chechen citizens applied for asylum in poland. it shows that my country is open to refugees, but it doesn't mean that it's open to all the decisions of the european union in this regard.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i am glad that minister kalniņa-lukaševica is with us. i congratulate the latvian presidency on its achievements and thank you for your words: we want to stop the flow of immigrants. but i was hoping to see president donald tusk here, who as president of the council should be here to defend the decisions of the council, which opposed the adoption of quotas for the dispatch of migrants across europe. this is against the established european states and the european commission is committing an abuse to which president tusk should respond. unfortunately, he is probably busy campaigning in poland, because he seems to have forgotten that the task of the president of the european council is to defend its agreements, the agreements of the european countries, and not to monitor how the citizens of the european countries vote. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! i am in favour of solidarity, but against centralism, against the placement of immigrants on the basis of pre-established quotas. this is a completely wrong policy. immigration policy must take into account the condition of individual societies. the nations of central and eastern europe are under pressure to emigrate from the east. this is a problem no less important than the pressure coming from north africa. mr zdechovský, member of the european people's party, spoke about the efforts of the czech state. i could say a lot about the polish state's efforts. the last thing to do is to condemn the member states as mr verhofstadt has done. if anyone is to be condemned, it is those states that first maintained corrupt relations with dictatorships in north africa, and then inadvertently destabilized the situation there. these are the real culprits. let us act in solidarity, but without the mistakes of centralism.
in the light of what mr jurek of the ecr has maliciously suggested, i would like to say that mr tusk, president of the council, is preparing the eastern partnership summit to be held in riga tomorrow, and is not campaigning, mr president. i am glad that manfred weber said that the solidarity mechanism for resettlement still needs to be discussed. the essence of solidarity is the voluntary cooperation of partners if we want it to be truly effective. so it always takes two to tango. solidarity must go hand in hand with the economic and logistical capabilities of individual countries. therefore, poland will be ready to participate in such a programme, but on the terms defined by it. the very announcement of the programme by the commission, commissioner, has triggered a wave of anti-immigration, populist behaviour in the countries that may be affected by the resettlement. thousands of people are joining the anti-immigration movement on social media. what preventive measures does the commission propose to prevent the spread of xenophobic and anti-immigrant behaviour? what measures does the commission propose to create programmes to integrate refugees and those to educate local communities? what specific criteria did the commission use, other than those listed in the agenda, to assess the efficiency of ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the issue of refugees from north africa and the middle east is currently the most pressing issue in the european union. the european commission has proposed that eu countries take in a certain number of refugees, depending on, among other things, the size of their gdp and their population. my country, poland, would accept five percent of all refugees under this proposal. recently, the president of the european council, donald tusk, told a meeting in gdańsk that europe is going to take in 70 million migrants over the next 20 years. that means that poland would take in three and a half million refugees. so this is a very serious problem and i don't know if there is the consent of the citizens of the european union to such a solution.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to make use of rule 164 of the rules of procedure concerning the possibility of referring to statements which concern me personally at the end of the debate on the agenda item under consideration. chairman lambsdorff has not accepted this application. i would like to respond to the last point made by mrs kudryavtsi, which has been made here. i am very grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, and i was surprised by mrs kudrycka's expectation that president donald tusk, as president of the council, would be present at our meetings and defend the european council's position on immigration, the principle of voluntariness, which is opposed to the european commission's position on the quota system for immigrants in europe. i don't know where chairman tusk is right now. i know that he was campaigning in poland this week, and i know that he should be here today to present the council's position, defending the position of the european union countries, because that is his first duty! thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! since mr jurek mentioned my name, i'd like to make a very specific point about what he said. the council was represented by the latvian minister, who is currently holding the presidency. and the president of the european council, donald tusk, is preparing - preparing and preparing - the eastern partnership council, which will take place in riga tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. therefore, these malicious insinuations of mr. jurk are irrelevant, because he has alleged that he is running a campaign. that's not true. president donald tusk is preparing the council for a summit in riga tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving, on behalf of the union and its member states, the additional protocol to the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the eu member states and the republic of south africa was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia acceded to the eu and became the 28th member state. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with south africa for the conclusion of an additional protocol. the negotiations on this matter were successfully concluded on 19 may 2014. the purpose of the additional protocol is only to introduce into the trade, development and cooperation agreement the few technical and linguistic changes necessary as a result of the accession of croatia to the eu. the signing of the additional protocol is necessary for the republic of croatia to become a party to the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa.
in writing. ‒ most mobile phones, tablets and computers are now made from valuable minerals whose extraction, processing and even marketing are sometimes highly controversial. it turns out that the minerals used are often extracted in violation of basic human rights, which can be called 21st century slavery. moreover, profits from the trade in or the processing of such minerals are often used for other illicit activities, including - worst of all - the financing of armed conflicts that claim tens or even hundreds of thousands of lives, especially in africa and latin america. there is also a real economic dimension to this problem. we cannot allow honest companies that comply with international standards for the extraction and marketing of minerals to be harmed by competition from those who break the basic rules. i therefore support the form of regulation that will best ensure that all companies in the mineral supply chain comply with the relevant standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on maternity leave because i believe that the council should return to the negotiating table as soon as possible. instead of threatening to withdraw the project, the commission should make every effort to break the deadlock and work out a common position between parliament and the council. in the face of an ageing continent and low growth rates in most european countries, legislation to ensure a better balance between family and working life is of paramount importance. i also voted for the passage of paragraph 5 on the introduction of paid paternity leave. fathers, like mothers, should be guaranteed the right to reconcile their private and professional lives. member states should realise that it is in their interest to create legislation that does not deter young people from starting a family but encourages them to do so.
in writing. ‒ in supporting the parliament's resolution on the amendment of the maternity leave directive, i voted for equal rights for women across the european union to enjoy the same standards of maternity leave and to maintain a decent wage for young women. the maternity leave regulation is at odds with eu policies on reconciling work and life, tackling demographic change and protecting women's health. in addition, the recommendations contained in this regulation indirectly contribute to the implementation of the 2020 strategy and allow young mothers to lead a decent life while caring for young children. given that the project is aimed at improving the living conditions of women citizens of the union and is in line with the recommendations of the international labour organisation on maternity protection, it should not be withdrawn. i would also point out that the project also strengthens the protection of women against dismissal after the end of the maternity period, which allows women to maintain greater employment stability.
in writing. ‒ the demographic challenges facing the european union today require strong action to support fertility, as the rapid ageing of european societies could lead to the collapse or significant disruption of pension systems. although poland currently has one of the longest maternity leave periods in europe, at 12 months, i believe that the competence to determine the length of maternity leave should remain in the hands of the member states. only then will it be possible for the legislator to take account of a number of national and national factors relevant to this issue, such as the tradition or the level of socioeconomic development of individual countries. i therefore abstained on a resolution calling for the resumption of work on the amendments to the maternity leave directive.
in writing. ‒ the demographic crisis in europe is no longer a question of the near future, but a real problem that increasingly affects our ageing european society. the european union is not, of course, the panacea for all the problems involved. the member states have a leading role to play in this respect, and they should ensure that social policy is geared to supporting families, especially women who decide to take time off from work and have a baby. this boundary between the eu's and the member states' competences is very clear and no one disputes it. however, we cannot ignore the community's potential to create a family and motherhood-friendly environment. we have an opportunity at european level to combat the ageing trend and we should seize it. supporting women is crucial here, because they bear the biggest cost of the decision to have a child. the creation of solutions that allow men to participate more effectively in childcare will be a valuable incentive to decide on parenthood. i think it is worth supporting this resolution and encouraging the council to take more active action for our future.
in writing. ‒ one of the objectives of our work in the agri committee is to ensure that consumers have the highest quality food. we cannot foresee all the challenges, but we have the ability to prevent and respond to foodborne illness and contamination. and that's how it should be this time. we should have learned from experience (asf in poland, the cucumber crisis in germany) that we should have the tools to ensure that this problem, which is occurring in a specific area, does not lead to a health risk for consumers and a stalemate for producers in the sector and huge losses for their own businesses, and above all the loss of thousands of jobs. each case should be treated individually, as each area has its own characteristics and will respond differently to a crisis. since olive trees have been cultivated in apulia for several thousand years, the tools used here should be specifically adapted to the epidemic that is occurring there. first of all, a financial instrument should be launched to support farmers in the crisis and allow them to quickly recover and return to the market. i would like to emphasise that such an instrument should be available at all times so that it can be used immediately if necessary.
madam president! poland was the first european country to establish diplomatic relations with turkey over 600 years ago. these relations worked out in the most difficult times for us, when poland, torn apart by its neighbors, did not exist on world maps. in times of great geopolitical challenges, of threats of terrorism, of hybrid war, of which we do not know when it begins, how it goes and when it ends, we should remember that turkey is our ally.
madam president! as we do every year, we are meeting here to assess whether and what changes for the better have taken place in turkey's path to european union membership. today, as always, i would like to focus on one very important aspect which has also been raised in this report. i am talking about press freedom and the trials of journalists who are arrested under various pretexts for allegedly spreading ideas and propaganda of terrorist organizations because of their work on topics that are uncomfortable for the authorities in ankara. in 2014, reporters without borders ranked turkey as one of the countries where journalists were subject to the highest number of arrests, threats, trials and physical attacks. the arrests are a fact and we as the european parliament must insist that the ongoing trials against journalists be conducted in a transparent manner, with respect for the law and in appropriate conditions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! there's an election coming up in ethiopia. although there have been long-standing restrictions on civil liberties, media freedom and many irregularities in the previous elections - as the commissioner has just said - the european union continues to provide assistance to ethiopia through, amongst others, the european development fund. we must therefore at least ensure effective control of the expenditure of these funds, since there are problems with external election observation. ethiopia is an important country for the european union, if only in terms of the migration problem. recently, about 30 ethiopian christian refugees were brutally murdered by islamic terrorists in libya, which caused social unrest in ethiopia. it is therefore imperative to send an observer mission there - although we know that the european union has not been invited - because the social unrest could destabilise one of africa's most populous countries and, consequently, increase the number of illegal refugees in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. on may 24th this year, ethiopian citizens will go to the polls to vote in a general election. however, there is a great fear that the elections may not meet basic international standards and that their results may prove unreliable due to the repressive political system. political pluralism is the basis of democracy, of modern society and the source of legitimacy of the political system. the conduct of elections requires a free and fair procedure and equal opportunities for all candidates. therefore, the ethiopian government should ensure democratic political debate and respect for the electoral code. the fight against corruption and the guarantee of freedom of expression are fundamental foundations for transparent and fair elections. however, the ethiopian authorities have taken measures that eliminate political opposition through persecution and human rights violations. known cases of arbitrary arrests of independent journalists and bloggers, detention of political prisoners, displacement of ethnic minorities, discrimination against christians, as well as extrajudicial executions, torture and sexual violence are crimes that are largely committed by the ethiopian military. union action should influence the ethiopian authorities to comply with the cotonou agreement on human rights, including freedom of expression, and the international covenant on civil and political rights, and to conduct an immediate investigation into serious allegations of torture and rape of minors in ogaden by the ethiopian armed forces.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (2015/2704 (rsp)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to ask president lunacek a question, because you come from a country in such a remote part of europe, but also in a country that is close to the balkans. what is your opinion on the name of this country? i think it's hard to live in a country, it's hard to be a stable country, if the citizens don't even know what their country should be called. i'd like to ask you, though, what is your view of the problem?
that wasn't a question.
i would like to recall rule 162 of our rules of procedure, which states in paragraph 12 that 'members who did not take the floor in a debate may, not more than once during the monthly part-session, make a written statement of not more than 200 words, which shall be annexed to the full report of the debate'. i'm asking you to use this spot. i am using it as a member of parliament and i am also proposing that other people who i have not been able to give a voice to benefit from it. i apologize again to all those who were not given a voice. the debate is closed.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, honourable members, allow me to start by thanking the european parliament for the opportunity to debate the eastern partnership just before the riga summit, which will gather the heads of state from the european union and the eastern partnership partner countries from 21 to 22 may in riga. almost six years ago in prague, we set out our vision of bringing the relationship between the eu and its eastern european partners to a new level by deepening our bilateral engagement and building a multilateral framework for cooperation and dialogue. since then, we have achieved good progress in our partnership. we have a better understanding of the different interests, needs and ambitions of our partner countries within the eastern partnership. in riga, we will take stock of the considerable achievements we have witnessed since vilnius and chart a positive agenda for the future. since the last eastern partnership summit in vilnius, the signing of association agreements and deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) agreements brought to a new level our cooperation with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the association agreements, including dcftas, with georgia and the republic of moldova are already provisionally applied and the initial indications are very promising. trade is already increasing between the eu and the partners concerned. as regards ukraine, the recent eu summit with ukraine reconfirmed that the provisional application of the ukrainian dcfta will start on 1 january 2016. as you are aware, commissioner cecilia malmström, is holding trilateral talks with her ukrainian and russian counterparts to ensure that provisional application on 1 january takes place in the best possible environment. the riga summit will be an opportunity to review the early stages of the implementation of association agreements and dcftas and to demonstrate the eu’s strong commitment to deepening our cooperation. the summit will reaffirm the importance of reforms which consolidate the rule of law and a competitive market economy as the best prospect for guaranteeing a european future for our partners. we will highlight the eu’s commitment to supporting efforts devoted to advance cooperation in institution-building, mobility and people-to-people contacts, market opportunities and interconnections. therefore, i would like to stress that, on the margins of the riga summit, three large-scale side events will take place: the media conference on the role of the media in the eastern partnership, the civil society conference and the business forum. these events will emphasise the increasing role of civil society and business contacts as an integral part of the eastern partnership policy. let me stress that the eu values our relationship with all six of our eastern partners and we are ready to work for more tailor-made arrangements with them. for partners with association agreements, the path ahead is laid out in those agreements. for the other partners, there is work to be done. we have reached an understanding with armenia on the scope of our future relationship and we hope that the council allows negotiations to begin on a new contractual agreement with armenia. the relevant negotiating mandate is being prepared. we currently await azerbaijan’s ideas on how it sees its future relations with the european union. once we have received these, we will give serious consideration as to the kind of relationship that both sides need and expect. we are also exploring ways to further deepen our critical engagement with belarus. we are convinced that developing bilateral relations in this differentiated way is the best way to ensure that all six partners have a stake in the eastern partnership and therefore remain committed to this unique framework. we have moved forward in the area of mobility. since april last year, moldova has enjoyed a visa-free regime with the schengen area. nearly half a million people have been able to take advantage of it. both georgia and ukraine have made good progress in implementing the benchmarks of their visa liberalisation action plans. fulfilling the actions required in the recent commission progress reports would allow these countries to complete their respective implementation of all the visa liberalisation action plans’ second-phase benchmarks. the commission will continue to monitor and to do its utmost to support them and will report on progress by the end of 2015. the finalisation of the negotiations with belarus on the visa facilitation agreement and readmission agreement and the launch of the mobility partnership in june is foreseen. let me stress that the eastern partnership riga summit is taking place in a new geopolitical environment where borders have been changed by force and where partners (and indeed member states) have been subjected to considerable pressure. let me stress once again that we do not share the zero-sum thinking based on rival spheres of influence or the use of coercion. let me be absolutely clear: neither the eastern partnership nor the bilateral relations between the eu and any of its partners have ever, nor will they ever, be directed against anyone. but let me be equally clear, the eu will continue to stand up for our partners as they make free, sovereign choices about their foreign and trade policies. in addition to being a major opportunity to reconfirm our commitment to the eastern partnership, the summit in riga will also be a valuable occasion to get our partners’ views on the future of the european neighbourhood policy. we want to make sure that in redesigning our policy for the future we have listened to our partners and taken their views fully into account. let me re-state that we offer our eastern european partners a genuine partnership. we do not impose choices on our partners. differentiation in our bilateral relations will need to be further enhanced, taking account of each partner`s ambitions and needs. the full engagement of partners’ governments is crucial in bringing about the necessary reforms. nevertheless, no government is able to succeed in such an endeavour without the broad support of the people. successful transformation is only possible if it emerges as a result of joint efforts of society as a whole. the nurturing of constituencies for reform able to influence national decision-making is imperative. local authorities, parliamentarians (including this house), the business community and civil society have a very important role to play in the eastern partnership. we therefore count on this house to help us stand with our partners in delivering the chance their citizens desire.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, my first two sentences do not count in my speaking time because they are informal. i think it is deplorable that the commission chair is empty at such an important debate. if this is a signal of the importance which the commission attaches to the eastern partnership programme, then i am sorry for riga. now, please start my time. the eastern partnership is a well-designed policy of strategic importance and it is very much needed by the eu because it impacts on economics, prosperity and security and because the primary mission of the union is peace. and it is very much needed by our neighbours because they want to transform themselves in line with the european model. the eastern partnership is a work in progress and it will continue, with necessary modifications and reinforcements. there was an attempt by russia to derail the eastern partnership by pressing for ukraine to refuse to sign it in vilnius. euromaidan gave a clear answer and stood up to the russian pressure, and the people of ukraine said: we want european values. then russia waged a war against their choice, but russia will fail in trying to stop the eastern partnership and the free choices of free peoples. an old rule says ‘when a bear charges, do not retreat’. in riga, the eu will stick to its plan and will stay on course. when somebody tries to stop you, you have two choices: either to backtrack or to progress further with redoubled energy. the second is our choice because, firstly, it is the strong will of our partners and, secondly, it is in the fundamental interest of the eu and it reflects our values. thirdly, if we do not defend freedom and democracy in our neighbourhood, then our own freedom, democracy and prosperity will be in danger.
madam president, when you are going to open a discussion with somebody, you should know the truth. in some cases you may be shocked by your opponent. so everybody knows that boris nemtsov has been killed in russia, but nobody knows that it is much safer to be an opposition politician or an independent journalist in moscow than in kiev. in ukraine over the last few weeks, oles buzina, oleh kalashnikov, oleksandr puklushenko, olga moroz, serhiy sukhobok, stanislav melnik, and plenty of hungarians, moldovans, jews, gagauz and russians, have been killed by the ukrainian nationalists. i understand that the fascists, who are growing in influence in the european union, look on in sympathy at the nationalists in ukraine, but it is the truth that will make us free.
madam president! i would like to say first of all that it is absolutely embarrassing that the commission is not represented on the point concerning the statement by the high representative on the eastern partnership summit. and at the same time, we are aware that this summit is extremely important, perhaps the most important in the history of the eastern partnership, because on the one hand we are dealing with the partner countries that have concluded association agreements with the union and are now in a difficult situation, and on the other hand we are dealing with the union itself, which is trying to reconcile various conflicting interests. the text adopted at the summit should be firm and decisive. we should reaffirm in it the european perspective of ukraine, georgia and moldova, and we should also declare the creation of visa-free travel for ukrainians and georgians as early as 2016. in this text we should also firmly name russia's actions: russian aggression against ukraine, annexation of crimea. if we back down, if this text is weaker, it will be interpreted by russia as a permission to act. we can't let that happen.
madam president! the eastern partnership summit starting tomorrow is another opportunity for the european union to stop pretending to be active towards its eastern neighbours and to start actually doing so. if what is happening in ukraine, if the russian weapons and threats are not enough motivation to draw up a concrete plan to support our partners in eastern europe, then i think nothing will be able to force us to do so. ukraine is the top story right now: the deepening chaos, the threat of bankruptcy and the next russian offensive are destroying that country and destroying the security architecture in our immediate neighborhood. can we really afford to do just one more gcse? the real conditions and prospects for eu membership, economic support and effective assistance for the modernisation of public institutions and the establishment of a visa-friendly programme - these issues must be in the conclusions of the summit. not only the people of ukraine, but also the people of moldova and georgia are waiting for this. the strength of russia, your honor, is our weakness and indecision. the riga summit may show that we can be decisive and we should take advantage of it, but the commissioner is not here.
madam president! let us always remember that strengthening the independence of the countries that emerged in the east after the collapse of the soviet union is the very meaning of our cooperation. bill etheridge was talking before he left this room about how realism requires respect for the russian sphere of influence. well, if we speak that language, we will not only erode the political, but the moral meaning of europe. but let's remember one more thing: we hear a lot in this room: our values, our values. maybe it's time we thought about the fact that these people that we talk to in eastern europe -- the ukrainians, the georgians -- they want to bring their values to us, and we can benefit from that. europe should be grateful every day that christian life survived the years of soviet persecution, but is that what we write about in our resolutions, or is that what we accepted at the "march of the family" in tbilisi? let's keep that in mind.
first of all, i would like to point out that our policy towards our eastern partners has always been characterised by a certain inconsistency, naivety and instability, and all these elements have made us, in short, ineffective. i feel that we have made some progress in this area in the last five years. we still, perhaps, are not consistent enough, we still, perhaps, are not always able to formulate a good offer, but in general, i want to emphasize that we are making progress in this matter. what i want to stress at this point is that, within the eastern partnership, we must treat our partners very individually, in order to build offers for them, taking into account the differences that undoubtedly exist between these countries, which are very strong and very often culturally determined. in the meantime, i'd like to address a few of the allegations that have been made against the high commissioner. i would point out that the commissioner is a frequent visitor to this chamber and i would like to give her at least a partial explanation.
madam president, there are many expectations related to the riga summit; because of the aggressive stance of russia, we would like to have stronger achievements. if the riga summit could be a game changer in that area, i see small progress. we are talking about the accession process of three countries. we are working on new measures in the redefined neighbourhood policy for economic growth and energy cooperation, for civic society development and the rule of law, as a foundation. we are supporting reforms, which are crucial. we are on the road with all countries, including armenia and azerbaijan. i am not sure if it concerns belarus. what is needed the most? to give a positive signal to the societies. under the present threats from russia, they should feel that they are beneficiaries in many areas. examples: concrete visa liberalisation offers should be clearly presented to georgia and ukraine; a promising description of the eu membership perspective is needed.
madam president! before the partnership summit, we wonder what we have achieved, because it has achieved good results, albeit incomplete. we would probably achieve better results if there was more determination, also in the house of lords, to confirm the aspirations of the member states of the partnership. this initiative was not directed against anyone, especially russia, and it is often tried to emphasize here that it was. the partnership is diverse because it is built around six members who have different expectations, different aspirations and ambitions, and this requires a flexible and diverse approach. it has undeniable achievements, including association agreements with ukraine, moldova and georgia, as well as concrete projects funded by the neighbourhood fund. reforms are needed in the partnership member states, but due to the diversity of ambitions, they should be tailored to the expectations of the partners. i welcome the declaration which speaks of the european aspirations and choice of ukraine, moldova, georgia and the other partnership countries.
madam president! the upcoming eastern partnership summit will undoubtedly be a major test for the whole initiative, and therefore the expectations for it are huge. i believe that one of the particularly important points to be discussed is cooperation on energy security and interconnections. the european commission's 2014 stress tests analysing the potential impact of the russian gas supply disruption clearly indicated that increased coordination and cooperation between member states could significantly mitigate the potential impact of the supply disruption. in the current volatile international environment, europe needs to pay particular attention to energy security, and i therefore look forward to concrete proposals to strengthen energy security, including the development of interconnections in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. the gradual liberalisation of visa requirements with a view to visa-free travel is one of the main tools for bringing the peoples of the european union and the eastern partnership closer together. since the first prague summit in 2009, most partners have made significant progress in implementing the reforms required by the european union. the republic of moldova has succeeded in lifting the visa requirement as early as april 2014. the eastern partnership summit in riga is expected to decide on the prospects for visa-free travel with further countries, georgia and ukraine, and visa facilitation with belarus. the issue of visa liberalisation is of political, social and economic importance and its acceleration is therefore a key element in shaping the bilateral relationship. visa-free travel is an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the eastern partnership countries; half a million moldovan citizens benefited from it in its first year. open borders are of great importance not only for trade, culture and social exchange, but also for the democratic aspirations and the aspirations to freedom on which the idea of a common europe is based. the difficult reforms facing our eastern partners are expected by the people of the eastern partnership countries and the eu as they have an impact on enhancing security in the region. we hope that as of 2016, citizens of georgia and ukraine will benefit from the right to visa-free travel.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, let me use this opportunity to signal once again the high political importance of the youth employment initiative and to thank parliament for the very fruitful cooperation that allowed us to react promptly to the challenge of youth unemployment. members have asked what is holding member states back. at this point in time, it is still difficult to fully assess the actual progress on the ground, as the reporting cycle at eu level has not yet started. aside from the financial liquidity issue, which is the most pressing one, i could refer to three other challenges to the sufficiently speedy mobilisation and uptake of youth employment initiative measures: firstly, some member states lack the implementing structures; secondly, there is the matter of finalising the designation of competent authorities, which has also been emphasised by some member states; and, thirdly, there are a number of issues related to the administrative capacity of the national, regional and local structures implementing youth employment initiative measures. so how does the council intend to urgently encourage swift and efficient implementation? the council considers, in line with the european parliament, that sufficient liquidity will also allow for a faster implementation of the relevant policy measures set out in the national youth guarantee implementation plans. the new proposal to increase pre-financing should contribute to a quicker mobilisation of resources and thus to increasing the capacity of national authorities to launch calls for projects and to process applications more speedily. the additional pre-financing will be paid to member states immediately after the entry into force of the amending regulation. a positive impact could be expected soon. on the other hand, the implementation of the youth guarantee requires both structural reforms and measures targeting individuals. member states are currently implementing a mix of national youth employment policies on the basis of their individual needs and priorities, with the youth guarantee scheme representing one of these measures. all relevant member states have submitted their youth guarantee implementation plans and the implementation at national level is being regularly monitored by the council, based on contributions from the committee on employment and social affairs in a multilateral and indicator-based process. exchange of experience between member states is also important, as well as impact evaluation of the measures carried out. to conclude, i would like to underline that member states are currently in the process of submitting structured data reports on the implementation of the youth employment initiative. these reports will provide an overview, also limited, of the progress made by member states in the implementation of the youth employment initiative, which will feed into the commission’s analysis of further measures and into the regular monitoring by the council. effective monitoring is thus one of the preconditions of successful implementation and continuity of sound funding. in this respect the council, on the basis of the work of the committee on employment and social affairs, is pursuing a multilateral surveillance on implementation and undertaking a peer review on the progress in the implementation of the reforms addressed in the country-specific recommendations. last but not least, based on the experience of 2014 and with little improvement of the youth employment figures in some of the hardest-hit member states, it can be expected that this issue will be addressed in the framework of the 2015 european semester debate. in any case, the council will discuss this issue in more detail at the june session in conjunction with a special report of the court of auditors. member states will also have to further strengthen their efforts, focus on implementing relevant structural reforms and deliver quality measures to enable young people to participate in the labour market, training or education. these will also be very important measures. to sum up, the council shares the view that more needs to be done to fight youth unemployment. i have just mentioned a few examples of measures underway in the council and the commission with the aim to make the system more effective. i cannot promise members a miracle solution tomorrow, but i can firmly say that hard work is being done to find a solution as soon as possible.
in writing. i think that in her question, ms ulvskog has raised an important point. i would point out that the problem of not using the funds sufficiently or quickly enough is not just a problem of the youth guarantee but also of cohesion policy funds in general. so we need to consider what causes it and what we can do about it. i believe that the best way to increase and accelerate the absorption of funds is to simplify procedures as much as possible. in addition, additional support from the commission, both information and technical, which could facilitate the collection and use of funds by member states and beneficiaries, should be considered. it should be borne in mind that the youth guarantee is a unique aid measure designed to bring about a rapid improvement in the dramatic situation on the labour market. i therefore call on the commission to be flexible and proactive in its action.
in writing. europe is facing social problems, on the one hand, linked to the ageing of its populations and on the other hand, to the difficulties of young people entering the labour market. this is recognised by the member states, which are taking individual action in this regard. in addition to national support for youth employment, member states may also benefit from the european social fund (esf) and the youth employment initiative in the context of the 2014-2020 financial framework. the problem of youth unemployment is very complex and its causes vary from one member state to another. given the different levels of severity of the problem in different countries and the significant differences in the efficiency with which the actions are implemented, particular attention should be paid to cases where the support provided is most needed and to those where it is least effective. young people are the future of the eu and as many public and private actors as possible should be involved in the efforts to give them a good start in their careers.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. acer plays a very important role in the energy union currently under construction. this is particularly relevant for reporting and monitoring of energy markets. good management is not possible without adequate information, especially on prices and energy flows. as rapporteur for the energy union report, i wanted to draw particular attention to the need to increase acer's resources and resources, as this will be a condition for the proper integrity of national energy markets. the energy union also imposes new tasks on the agency, significantly expanding its involvement in the negotiation process and monitoring of external markets. without reliable and appropriate information, it is not possible to put in place solutions that will build the energy union properly. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the need for a closer cooperation between the agency and the national energy offices responsible for energy management in the member states. this is of great importance in the development of a common energy policy in line with the policies of the individual member states of the european union.
the remit regulation assigns acer the task of detecting and preventing abuse in wholesale energy markets. however, the side effect of such action - obviously necessary - may be to stifle the price signals for investment, which are the foundation and guarantee of long-term security of energy supply in europe. the commission promotes a single market in energy as a reference model for europe. however, this model requires free pricing. methods for detecting and combating abuses must therefore distinguish between cases of price increases caused by a shortage of resources and cases of abuses for the purpose of unjustified profit. in view of the current challenges in many european countries in terms of long-term security of energy supply and the possibility of further exacerbating them by the implementation of an anti-fraud mechanism, does the commission intend to move away from the dogma of a single market in europe to a dual market, i.e. an energy and a power market?
the chairman. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after two further debates.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the plight of the rohingya refugees, including the issue of mass graves in thailand (2015/2711 ((rsp)).
thank you very much, mr. ambassador! i shall pass on your comments to the bureau of the european parliament. questions from the audience
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the final debate. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the swazi: the cases of human rights defenders thulani maseko and bheki makhubu (2015/2712 (rsp))
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
in writing. ‒ poland is an active participant in international projects that contribute to stabilisation and peacebuilding in conflict areas. we believe that the threats we are facing require very close cooperation between democratic countries, including european countries. the common security and defence policy cannot be an alternative to the north atlantic alliance, which is a proven guarantor of security. he can't duplicate his duties or his potential. however, the csdp can be a helpful tool in areas where nato cannot and does not want to engage. these actions must be complementary. we are pragmatic. i therefore abstained, in appreciation of the quality of the report and in support of some of its points.
in writing. ‒ the planning and implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular in the context of new challenges facing this policy such as the fight against terrorism, cybercrime and illegal migration, should be based on solidarity and close and effective cooperation between member states and international organisations. the new security challenges require a very comprehensive approach and a long-term perspective on the proposed actions. the approach must take into account the educational aspect in order to be effective and credible. we cannot tackle the root causes of terrorism without education in tolerance, multiculturalism and mutual dialogue and understanding. we also cannot build an effective migration policy without education on integration, intercultural education and anti-discrimination. that is why we need common education programmes on the common security and defence policy. to implement and build support for the csdp effectively, we need to help europeans understand its roots, values, new goals and challenges through education.
in writing. ‒ in the current geopolitical situation, and in particular in view of the growing instability in the southern and eastern neighbourhoods of the european union, a debate on solutions to ensure security in europe is necessary. it is time for the member states of the european union to answer the question whether nato is a sufficient response to the new security challenges or whether additional action within the european union is necessary. i believe that the european union and its member states should strive to increase their capabilities, both in terms of territorial defence and in other relevant areas such as cybersecurity, in full complementarity with nato's actions. that is why i voted in favour of the report which recommends close cooperation between the eu and nato in this area.
madam president! if we want to take care of our common security - and there are things that nations can only do effectively together - we should act unanimously in the north atlantic treaty, where the majority, the vast majority, although not all of our countries are allied. but what kind of common policy can we really talk about if seven years after the russian aggression against georgia our georgian friends are still outside the structures of the pact, and for those seven years we were not unanimous on the issue of being in the pact. we should create common institutions, common competences for a common policy, to strengthen it, but certainly not to create the appearance of a policy and paralyse the initiative of our countries. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the security situation in the european union's eastern and southern neighbourhood remains fragile and uncertain due to a number of long-standing and emerging conflicts. it is important to continue to work towards more efficient provision of funding for civilian missions and simplification of decision-making procedures and implementing arrangements. at the same time, the utmost caution must be exercised in relation to defence preparatory actions, whether they concern management, co-financing or participation rules. member states should be fully involved in the decision-making process in order to avoid bureaucratic problems, while ensuring that programmes meet strategic needs.
madam president! as ronald reagan once said, "government can't solve any problems, government can only create problems". we hear all the time that there are problems in the world. maybe it's because the g7 meets quite often, or maybe it's not. anyway, the problems are mounting. we've heard here that we renounce the use of violence. well, we had a situation in the house where the chairwoman called the members of the house to leave the chamber. she did not use violence, and as a result, she had to allow mr. timmermans to speak without following her instructions. we are surprised that isil caliphate is winning with us. he's winning because they use violence and we don't. if we keep preaching nonviolence, we're going to lose. only a moron would refuse to use violence. those who seek to impose a non-violent life on europe want europe to perish. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed!
in writing. on 24 march 2014, it was formally decided that the g-8 meetings could not continue due to the illegal annexation of crimea. it's a very good decision. the world's great democracies must remember that russia's argument for the right of nations to self-determination is clearly implemented in its immediate neighborhood: first destabilization, then ethnic cleansing, then exploitation of the russian minority in the neighborhood. now we can talk about hybrid warfare and aggressive propaganda activities. in the post-war order, however, the territorial integrity of states is an element of the international legal order, and the right of nations to self-determination is limited by certain criteria. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. however, the russian minority has not raised any serious objections to ukraine's respect for human rights in the international community. following the annexation, the russian authorities' policy of ethnic cleansing has been directed mainly at the indigenous crimean tatar and ukrainian people. in supporting the dialogue with african countries, i consider it wrong to omit the situation in ukraine, which is clearly highlighted, from the agenda and in the preparations for the summit, and to not invite president poroshenko. i agree with the view held by nato commanders that the illegal annexation of crimea and the war in eastern ukraine are the greatest threat to world security since the cold war. i hope that these arguments will be taken into account in the summit proceedings and documents.
the health of our youngest is a priority for which the eu budget must be found. programmes such as 'milk and fruit in schools' are particularly important as the problem of obesity affects more and more children and adolescents in the european union. the problem is that our youngest citizens prefer to eat fast food products instead of fruits and vegetables. so we must do our utmost to convince them that fruits and vegetables, as well as dairy products, are not only healthy but also delicious. therefore, a programme such as 'milk and fruit in schools' should be accompanied by information campaigns promoting healthy eating and local products, not the european union. it should be borne in mind that these programmes are also intended to complement support to farmers, especially in the face of the poor situation in the dairy and fruit and vegetable sectors caused by the russian embargo.
thank you, your honor, and enjoy your meal.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the experience of more than 30 years of the 'milk at school' programme and the six years of the 'fruit at school' programme have clearly demonstrated that these are effective tools for influencing the eating habits of children and young people in europe. the commission's initiative of december 2014 to combine the two programmes and implement them under a common legal and financial framework therefore deserves the strong support of parliament. this simplification of the procedures for joining and participating in both programmes will stimulate an increase in the number of beneficiaries, i.e. schools, and thus in the number of young people benefiting from both programmes. the increase in funding for the 'school milk' programme should be reconsidered at least to a similar level of funding to that for the 'fruit in schools' programme, i.e. up to eur 150 million per year. the polish delegation to the ecr group will vote in favour of mr tarabella's report. thank you very much. thank you.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! europe has obligations to eritrea, a country in a deplorable social situation, ruled by a brutal dictatorship. it has obligations all the stronger because it is a country that has lived through the experience - the bad experience - of colonialism. europeans are more obliged to do so than they would otherwise be. the free world has often had to overcome and respond to two phenomena: the violation of human rights and the relief of a society in distress. and that's what we should do, stand up to dictatorship, help the people directly. this aid should be monitored as closely as possible. i agree with mrs sargentini, who asked for an assessment of the progress of the aid so far. we shouldn't spend money in a wasteful way. an evaluation of what happened in the past should take place. perseverance and systematic approach will help us to reach our goals
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. yes, cyberspace is a hotbed for islamic terrorists, but it's also a hotbed for russian-led hacking. it was the same in latvia, it was the same in estonia, it was the same in my country in poland. so this is the realm of activity of either some states with imperial ambitions or terrorists. the european union must act decisively on this issue. we have to move fast. i agree with those comments that it's going too slow. we need to have a sense that these attacks could be more and more and that entire systems, not just media systems, but state systems could be paralyzed by these attacks. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! in its november 2012 resolution on cybersecurity, the european parliament called on the commission and the council to recognise unequivocally digital freedoms as fundamental rights and as a necessary condition for the enjoyment of universal human rights. parliament also stressed that member states should move towards a situation where they would never compromise the rights and freedoms of their citizens when developing responses to cyber threats and attacks. unfortunately, cyberattacks are increasingly becoming a tool of political struggle. access to the media means access to information, and information is today one of the most important, if not the main, asset that determines the achievement of goals not only in the social sphere, but also in the economic and political sphere. more than two and a half years have passed since that resolution was passed. i'd like to ask what progress the council's cyber commission is telling us today? is the european union capable of creating a sanctions programme for cyber espionage, as the united states has done? ladies and gentlemen, without concrete solutions, we are not able to tackle this problem. the resolution alone is not enough. in calling for more action in this area, i would also like to stress that parliament must be vigilant in defending citizens' rights. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! the commission's report was unfortunately a big fat piece of garbage. the only concrete things i heard were very disturbing, namely that certain restrictions had to be lifted. i understand that this is about further expanding the police state so that it can invade the privacy of homes, the privacy of apartments and businesses. the americans, the chinese, the russians, they know how to conduct cyber policy. the question is, can we? if we can, we should. if we can't, it's not worth talking about, because it's like the advice an impotent man gives about how to prevent unwanted pregnancy. thank you for your attention.
madam president! of course, i share these views about negative evaluation, the behavior itself, attacks and so on. there's only one question left. two and a half years ago, as mr jackiewicz said, we were accepting declarations on this subject. what is the status of implementation? i realize that crime in one form or another has always been and always will be with mankind. methods have changed, technologies have changed. we are at a time when we want to protect human rights. the only human right is the right to feel protected and therefore we must be clear about the state of implementation of this resolution, what measures we will take so that potential future offenders are clear about the calculation the risk is very high. what about detection? i'm pretty sure it will. three, that there will be consequences. and these are the key issues. thank you, sir.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to express my thanks for the invitation to come here tonight to share our points of view on a very sensitive issue. as i said at the beginning – and allow me to repeat it – terrorists’ use of the internet constitutes for us in the commission a very important issue and it is very high among our priorities. as you know, it has been highlighted in the european agenda on security. i do not have anything to add tonight. i am looking forward to meeting with you again to discuss the same issue as soon as we have implemented the actions foreseen in our agenda. as you know, we have already started working very hard on that.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i would like to thank you for this very important and very lively debate. as i have already mentioned in my opening remarks, cyber-attacks, including those targeting media, are an increasingly worrying trend. the growing sophistication of cyber-attacks and cyber threats around the world, and their use as an element of hybrid warfare and terrorist attacks, oblige us to stand on high alert and continue working to improve our capabilities to tackle this threat. we should continue to invest our efforts in guaranteeing the implementation of the existing tools and the full use of the eu initiatives dedicated to the fight against cyber threats. we should also continue and intensify work to provide for new and more comprehensive responses to the constantly evolving challenges posed by this threat. the council remains fully committed to work constructively towards the adoption and effective implementation of concrete measures in that respect. mr schwab and some other honourable members have reminded us of the importance of reaching an agreement on the directive on network and information security. today the presidency and the european parliament received key input from the commission on its recommendations for the most challenging issues in the directive, regarding its scope and several aspects of implementation, that will be instrumental in making the last remaining strides towards a compromise between the council and parliament. with this directive the eu is going into unchartered territory in attempting to make our new digital lives more safe and secure. this is, admittedly, not an easy process, as developing legislation on a highly technical issue that touches at the same time on national security is no easy task. the latvian presidency continues and will continue to work to make significant progress on this issue by the end of june. we are confident that the good spirit of cooperation which prevails will allow us to reach a timely conclusion of the negotiations on the directive on network and information security in order to provide the eu and its member states with an instrument to improve its preparedness and capabilities for action in case of cyber-attacks. at the same time, regulation of such innovative sectors must be achieved in a prudent and balanced manner in order to avoid placing an unnecessary burden on an industry that is creating growth and jobs. we shall also continue our efforts towards introducing effective and creative practical, preventive and control measures that will go beyond the necessary legislative minimum. strategic communication, countering propaganda, and international cooperation are on our list of priorities. at the same time, despite this late hour, i would like to recall the root cause of such attacks targeting independent and professional media. dramatic changes in the media landscape, in particular the introduction of new technologies, have resulted in an unprecedented flow of information. despite draconian measures, neither totalitarian regimes nor terrorists are able to firmly close the tap and fully prevent the information flow. journalists’ independent voices and reports give the international community a unique insight into realities on the ground, including in conflict zones. it is thanks to journalists’ courage that the world is aware of what happened in chernobyl, chechnya, libya, rwanda and srebrenica and what is happening in north korea, afghanistan, iraq, syria and ukraine. the media serve as a catalyst for a rapid and effective global response, and thus they are vital to the survival of a democratic society. it is for this reason that all of our activities aimed at improving security, resilience and capabilities should go hand-in-hand with activities aimed at safeguarding and reinforcing the ability of the media to provide independent and reliable information.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, cyberattacks on the media are a new threat to cybersecurity, as they are aimed at generating terror and thus threaten one of the basic institutions of democracy. these attacks reveal the brutal truth that no one is safe today. they demonstrate that terrorism and cybercrime can generate catastrophic consequences that directly affect citizens. at any given moment, the internet is spreading about 150,000 viruses that infect the hardware and software of over 1 million users every day. the recent attacks on french tv channel tv5 monde and belgian daily le soir only confirm concerns about the ease with which cyberattacks are being carried out. we live in a digital age today, where virtual reality is no less real than the real world. for this reason, cyber attacks must be seen as as dangerous as attacks on physical structures. the european commission and the member states should adopt swift solutions to improve cybersecurity at european level. this means better cooperation between national and european institutions, in line with real efforts to combat such threats together. concrete solutions and a clear presentation of the current state of cybersecurity are needed.
in writing. it is naive to think that we will be able to bring about rapid improvements in internet security and safety in the near future. while we observe and respect the efforts being made, we must accept that cyberattacks will be repeated, perhaps intensified. in my view, the attempt to create a single centre to counter these types of threats is a road to nowhere. without the far-reaching efforts of all stakeholders, no cyber-attack response project can succeed. it should be noted that too often we neglect the individual security of users and their data. we have a huge gap in education about how to use the internet safely in a way that protects your data and makes using the internet completely friendly. we should not just focus on the emergency firefighting, but address the problem from the bottom up, teaching and spreading good practices in using the network. finally, i would like to mention that the internet is also a giant business and that the owners of large internet companies also have a huge responsibility to protect, especially those youngest users, from abuse online.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. each year, worldwide, about 14 million girls under the age of 18 are married. the case of an eight-year-old yemeni girl who died of internal bleeding after her wedding night with a husband five times her age is very telling and painful. this is not a private family matter, it's a public matter, which we must treat as a crime. early forced marriage is a brutal restriction of childhood and a violation of the rights of the child. therefore, this practice should be regulated by law and penalties. we must not turn a blind eye to it and we must oppose it, but not by forcing the european union to adopt and ratify the istanbul convention, the ideological nature of which will not only not solve this problem but will actually open the way for social dismantling and the undermining of the institution of the family. we need to tackle the practice of early marriage in our discussions with partner countries on cooperation between the european union and those countries. we also need to ensure that these types of incidents do not happen in the member states of the european union despite the formal prohibition. information campaigns are needed to raise awareness of the harmful effects of these practices. we must not tolerate violence that attacks human dignity, the right to freedom, education that endangers health [...] (the president withdrew the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. when a 40-year-old man marries a 12-year-old girl, it's usually because of tradition, sometimes because of religion, and it's a situation that i deeply resent, because in our criminal codes, sex with a child is considered pedophilia, and in this situation, we're dealing with sexual violence, with psychological violence, with economic violence and with human rights violations -- women's rights to dignity, freedom, self-determination. it is therefore a phenomenon which, for obvious reasons, we must do everything we can to limit and combat. it is not only the asian countries that are affected, but also europe, unfortunately. the main tool to combat this phenomenon is education, because it gives you a pass to continue working, it gives you the opportunity to be economically independent and awareness of your rights and money are the main tools to prevent violence and protect yourself against it. another very important instrument is of course the istanbul convention, which prohibits forced marriages and i am proud that poland has recently joined the group of european union countries that have ratified this convention. i also welcome the european commission's earlier declarations that the european union will be a party to the convention, because it is very necessary for europe to be more aware of the rights enshrined in the convention. it is also worth recalling that at the recent un human rights session, one hundred and sixty-seven countries around the world agreed that the convention is the gold standard of anti-violence policy and that its provisions should be widely used as the primary tool to combat violence, including sexual violence. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! in this interesting discussion, we heard, especially at the beginning, about yemen, about africa, about the istanbul convention. but unfortunately, only a few of my colleagues, mostly, thank you for this, said that when we talk about this form of violence against, we actually talk about women, but not women, because girls, girls, we are talking about a phenomenon that is happening in europe today. a few years ago, data was published suggesting that in some areas of germany, as many as one in ten women may be victims of such a fate. the question is, which ones? since we are talking about the istanbul convention, we should ask in which countries, because, please, ladies and gentlemen, not in those countries that have recently declared themselves in favour of the protection of the natural order of the family. not in slovakia, not in croatia, not in lithuania. but this is the problem in a huge part, in ninety-some percent, of the muslim immigrant communities in europe. and i'm not surprised that we're talking about this problem, because we don't want to call it reality. but at the same time i want to say that we poles and we in central europe want to have the choice to continue not to make your mistakes and not to get in the way of this policy that is being imposed on us today, and which we are actually discussing these dark aspects of today. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you, mr. ambassador, if you don't think it's a violation of the principle of gender equality that we're talking about forced marriages of women, and not forced marriages of men, which also happen?
marek jurek (ecr), answering the question by raising the blue card. thank you very much, mr. ambassador, for your attention. we tend to look out for the weakest, but you're right. yes, in many countries, for example in germany, this is a problem that also concerns forced marriage of young men. and i say again, let's really think about the environments in which these dramas are taking place and what is really behind this mask of multiculturalism.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. one of the objectives of the post-2015 development agenda is to strengthen the rights and empowerment of women and girls. achieving this priority requires stepping up action to eliminate harmful practices that violate women's rights, such as early, forced marriage, which affects 14 million girls a year. forced marriage is an extreme form of violence against women and a major obstacle to the achievement of gender equality. the european parliament, in its 2006 resolution on women's immigration: the role and place of women migrants in the european union, stressed that 'violations of human rights, including the rights of girls, in the form of forced marriages or other violations cannot be justified by any cultural or religious considerations and should under no circumstances be tolerated'. issues related to women's rights, including forced marriages, must be addressed in the context of bilateral association agreements and other agreements with third countries. education and awareness-raising programmes focusing on forced and arranged marriages are also key. finally, it is essential that all states accede to the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, so as to establish a common policy of protection and international cooperation for the protection of women's rights.
in writing. early marriage and forced marriage continue to be widespread in the world. despite international commitments, this problem significantly limits human rights, especially for women and children, and hinders development and poverty reduction. the eu's human rights strategy 2012-2014 identified the prevention of child marriage as a priority for the member states and the european external action service. this important commitment was reiterated in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2015-2019, which includes the targeting of child, early and forced marriages. i support the european parliament's strong position on combating all forms of discrimination and violence against women, including forced marriages.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the continuation and expansion of the programmes for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments, which play an important role in promoting healthy eating habits and the consumption of agricultural products in the european union. i also agree with the need to expand the range of dairy products so that children with lactose intolerance can also benefit from the programme. it is important that the regions, which are best aware of the needs and capabilities of local educational establishments, are involved in the development of programmes and in the decision-making on the products to be distributed in schools, in addition to the member states. i also pay particular attention to the educational activities that accompany the distribution of agricultural products to schools. knowledge of healthy eating habits, agriculture, and environmental protection is crucial to shaping the quality of life and health of children and young people. developing the habit of eating fruits and vegetables among young people is the best investment in their health and well-being. remember, children are learning from their parents, who can also play a very important role in this program by encouraging their children to eat vegetables. in order for children in each member state to benefit from this programme, it is also important to take responsibility for its financing, which means increasing its budget so that it also covers dairy products.
over a month ago, ireland held a constitutional referendum on a different but similar issue, which introduced a new definition of family into the constitution. well, this referendum raises fundamental doubts about the course of its campaign. in our letter to the president we wrote that the question of funding was raised. the fact that the state-funded parties threatened to exclude politicians who were involved on the side of the minority in the referendum.
fundamental democratic principles have been violated, including above all the principle of the first minority, which is the party that is in the minority in the public debate but should have the same rights. therefore, i am requesting that this matter be discussed, the conduct of the referendum: whether both parties had the guaranteed guaranteed in irish law right of equality in the public debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are discussing today the adoption of a position on the correction coefficient for direct payments for calendar year 2015. this is the so-called financial discipline mechanism, which was provided for in the horizontal regulation of december 2013 as part of the latest reform of the common agricultural policy. the main objective of the fund is to establish a crisis reserve to support the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or the distribution of agricultural products. the total amount of the contingency reserve for the period 2014-2020 is set at eur 2,8 billion, which is equivalent to eur 400 million per year in 2011 prices. the application of financial discipline to direct payments in 2015 is part of the preparation of the union budget for 2016, in which the commission has set aside eur 441,6 million in current prices in the crisis reserve. after preliminary estimates for direct payments and agricultural market expenditure, the european commission assumed that an adjustment of less than 1.4% for direct payments would be sufficient. it should be stressed here that this deduction will only apply to farmers receiving more than eur 2000 in payments per year. in addition, due to the full payment inquiry in bulgaria, croatia and romania, financial discipline will not apply to these countries. according to the regulation, the correction coefficient should be adopted by co-decision of the council and the parliament by 30 june. therefore, as soon as we received a request from the european commission, our committee on agriculture in parliament decided to apply the simplified and accelerated procedure provided for in rule 50 of the rules of procedure, according to which i, as chairman of the committee responsible, drew up the draft report without amendments after my report had been adopted without amendments in the committee on agriculture and no amendments had been tabled for this plenary session. i hope that in tomorrow's vote we will finally be able to accept the european commission's proposal without amendments. with a clear declaration from the council, which also confirmed in writing its willingness to accept the commission's proposal without amendments, this will mean that we will be able to reach an agreement at first reading within the time limit set by the regulation. the recent disturbances on european agricultural markets, due to the russian embargo and the expiry of milk quotas, show the importance of this reserve. its importance is further enhanced by the reduction in intervention mechanisms that has taken place in the context of the recent reform of the common agricultural policy, or by the increasing influence of external factors such as the progressive liberalisation of world trade in the context of the profitability of european agriculture and european farmers. i don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced that agriculture is a very sensitive sector, heavily dependent on weather, climate, the price situation in world markets, speculation or international events. in view of the controversy over the agricultural budget last year, i would therefore like to stress that the agricultural appropriations which are returned to the agricultural budget should remain there to be used to combat the effects of the crisis. i would like to emphasize that this reserve is created from the funds that are in the common agricultural policy, the farmers are freezing them as it were. we're taking a portion of the payments to make a contingency reserve. if this reserve is not used, then these funds go back to the farmers, so you can say that the farmers create a reserve for themselves.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am speaking on behalf of the epp group on the regulation of the parliament and the council fixing the correction coefficient for direct payments for the calendar year 2015 to be paid in the financial year 2016, and i would like to say that my political group supports this solution and will vote in favour of it. the establishment of that coefficient, as well as the emergency reserve in the financial year 2016 of eur 441,6 million in current prices, means that this reserve can be used for agricultural emergencies. it should be noted that it will consist of direct payments above eur 2000 per holding and will also not cover the three countries where payments are incomplete, namely bulgaria, romania and croatia. although the creation of the correction coefficient and the emergency reserve means a corresponding reduction in the national direct payment envelopes for individual eu countries, the creation of this reserve in such uncertain agricultural management conditions is, in our opinion, appropriate and necessary. the eu is also facing a number of challenges, including the continuing russian embargo on food products from eu countries, the deterioration of the situation on many agricultural markets, including the milk market, falling purchase prices for many agricultural products and the opening of eu markets to food imports from third countries through the reduction of eu customs duties. all of this only increases the risk and uncertainty of agricultural production. i would therefore like to express the hope that the crisis reserve will be used in 2016 to support those farmers and agricultural markets where the situation will be most difficult.
mr. chairman, please! solidarity is a great european value: the principle that one for all, all for one. in the name of solidarity, sanctions were imposed on trade with russia, because that is what the security of europe requires, because that is what it requires to stand firm against russian expansion, a threat to peace in europe. on the other hand, this principle of solidarity has not worked or has worked very poorly, because it is the farmers who have suffered the economic consequences of these sanctions. the farmer in finland, the baltic states and poland, the farmers who could not sell their milk or their apples (in the case of poland, this was a real tragedy, because a million tonnes of apples had been sent to russia and this was stopped), the farmers in other countries, france and germany, also suffered great losses - they suffered losses of several billion euros, and the aid that the farmers received was only hundreds of millions of euros, and it was not even fair, not always distributed reasonably. it is a pity that this fund, which is set up every year in the event of a crisis and is quite substantial, has not been used for this purpose. the question is, what is the purpose of this fund if it hasn't been used in a situation like the russian embargo? i urge you to use this fund wisely in future and to use it in such situations.
member of the commission.– mr president, i want to thank all of the members who contributed to this debate, and in particular i would like to thank mr siekierski, the rapporteur, for bringing forward this report tonight. i want to commend the last common agricultural policy reform, and the people associated with approving it, for providing a crisis reserve without requiring additional finance to be provided for agriculture. this, in essence, shows the solidarity of the european union with the farming community at times of crisis. i welcome the support shown here today for the proposal which will establish this reserve for 2015 for the benefit of farmers in particular difficulties. the crisis reserve is solidarity in action. after all, as i said, it is funded from the existing resources of the farming community. many members raised the russian ban and its consequences for european farmers. i want to remind you that, last october, the commission had a proposal which would have utilised the crisis reserve of eur 433 million for that particular foreign policy decision. in november the new commission was in a position to reverse that decision and to provide from other sources the resources necessary to show solidarity with the farming community at times of difficulty, arising from the russian ban. if fully drawn down, these measures will cost eur 350 million, without reference to the crisis reserve. members like mr dantin who made considerable representations on these matters will, of course, recall these particular measures very well. but i know that many members have forgotten these particular decisions that were made in november in order to counter the concerns of many members of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) at that time. i wish to thank budget commissioner georgieva for being very sympathetic to providing that positive outcome for european farmers at a difficult time. i would say to ms schreijer-pierik, in relation to pigmeat, that i opened aids to private storage in order to recognise the difficulties for pigmeat producers in many member states. this scheme was open for about 10 weeks. it provided a withdrawal from the market of a significant tonnage from the pigmeat sector, and it has certainly stabilised incomes for many pigmeat producers. i also provided an opportunity for additional promotion measures for the pigmeat sector to replace some of the market share that was going to russia, particularly in countries like the philippines in the far east, which now account for 73% of the products in the pigmeat sector that had been going to russia. so the market-orientated policy that you have voted for and supported is working in action in relation to how we are dealing with the pigmeat sector. in terms of the application of financial discipline adjustment, it is important to remind ourselves that small farmers throughout the eu are exempted by the application of the eur 2000 threshold, below which the adjustment rate does not apply. i know that when mr ashworth said earlier that, because of their farm structure, a lot of farmers in the uk – and indeed in other member states – would not have to pay this particular contribution, he was certainly reflecting the reality of the fact that larger and medium-sized producers are the ones in a better position to pay for this particular instrument. mr agnew made another very valuable contribution with regard to the uk staying in europe, because he will know better than anybody that looking for eur 25 billion – which is the amount of money that the european union is subsidising british farmers at the moment – will be very difficult when you are competing with the public services around the cabinet table of a uk government. the eu is quite generous to british farmers – and rightly so – in addition to all of the other farmers in the union. i would subscribe to the view that the eu will always be more supportive of agriculture and rural development measures in the uk than its own government is. i want to conclude by repeating my welcome for the proposal, and i look forward to a positive vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. this report is formal and technical in nature, and the discussion was very substantive, which i would like to emphasise and for which i would like to thank you. the accelerated procedure for adopting this document means that there is a high degree of agreement between the council, parliament and the commission, which is worth emphasising in these responses to needs or difficult situations. it was about solidarity, because almost everyone, except the smallest, is in fact eligible for aid, and it is farmers who are affected by a difficult crisis situation who benefit from this aid. so this solidarity is extremely important. let's remember that agriculture has its own specificity: it depends on climatic conditions, weather, external conditions. at the moment, the dependence on the international situation is also very clear. this requires certain instruments which the free market is not always able to generate. the free market requires some support to counteract these agricultural emergencies. we should also remember that the major weakness of the reform of the common agricultural policy which we are currently implementing is precisely the limitation of forms of intervention on agricultural markets. i've talked about the purpose of these interventions, and in that limitation, we've gone too far. that's why good market management is important, because we have less money at the moment for the cap in general, less money for agriculture-related things. i think we cannot say that the cap is leading to a crisis. the cap supports agriculture and also supports consumers because this support for agriculture makes food cheaper and consumers pay less for the products they buy. i would like to thank the presidency and the commission once again for their cooperation.
in writing. agriculture, as one of the most vulnerable sectors of the economy, requires special protection. the establishment of a contingency reserve of eur 441.6 million is of the utmost importance for the protection of the interests of farmers in the eu. the current geopolitical situation in europe and the resulting breakdown in agricultural markets have exposed the imperfections of the current crisis response legislation. the introduction of the russian embargo on eu agricultural products, the continuing fall in the purchase prices of agricultural products, and the opening of eu markets to food imports from third countries through reductions in eu customs duties all point to increasing risks and uncertainties in the agricultural sector. i believe that the report of the committee on agriculture on the correction coefficient for direct payments for 2015 should be accepted, as the creation of a crisis reserve in a period of destabilisation of the european agricultural economy is absolutely necessary. the reserve is intended to protect european agriculture and give the european farmer a sense of at least relative security.
in writing. the correction coefficient for direct payments for 2015 concerns the establishment of a reserve to support the agricultural sector in crisis situations, and these funds are obtained through a reduction in direct payments, but only among those farmers who receive support above eur 2000 (except for farmers from croatia, romania and bulgaria, who have not yet reached the 100% ceiling for subsidies). the correction coefficient is 1,39%, which will provide a reserve of eur 446,1 million in the 2016 budget. it is worth noting that if the funds mentioned above are not used, the money is returned to the farmers the following year. we are all well aware of the fragility of agriculture and how easily the market can be disrupted, leading to surpluses or huge losses, which drastically reduce farmers' incomes. this is influenced not only by weather conditions and climate change, but also by the political situation in europe and beyond (the latest examples being the olive oil epidemic, the milk sector disruption and the effects of the russian embargo). the crisis reserve is therefore an absolute necessity, a mechanism to guarantee the smooth functioning of european agriculture, which i fully support.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to highlight in today's debate the theme of the importance of gender equality for the competitiveness and growth of the european union economy. gender equality in the labour market is undoubtedly a matter of social justice, a fundamental civil right, but it is also a prerequisite for sustained and sustainable economic growth. the full use of women's skills, education and talents brings real benefits to businesses and economies. the presence of women on boards, the presence of women in positions, is tied to the profits of the company. the 39% pension gap in europe is a great shame, this pension gap should be the first starting point and reference point for building equality policies, and we know well that to do this we need nurseries, kindergartens, care services and the possibility of reconciling work and family life.
on behalf of the ecr group. we are discussing a controversial and threatening report today which is supposed to be a coherent and effective strategy for gender equality. such an ideal strategy should be a field of cooperation between women and men and be based on access to equal opportunities in a way that respects and values the natural differences between them. but the report we're discussing has nothing to do with the actual idea of equality. it promotes abortion as one of the reproductive rights, intervenes in education by introducing a gender perspective at every level of education, calls for the adoption of a directive establishing gender parity in company supervisory boards, violates the natural identity of the family by promoting parenthood for lgbt people, and also points to the obligation to combat stereotypes and traditional perceptions of the roles of women and men, and demands the involvement of the commission and the member states in the in vitro procedure. the report entries interfere with the competence of the member states and are not in accordance with national rules. this report is a collection of different solutions, good and bad, but unfortunately, the bad ones will open the door to social dismantling and to the undermining of the institution of the family. it's these threats that are the essence of it. the report must not be allowed to pass, and that is why i will support amendment no 1 in tomorrow's vote, which respects the division of powers between the union and the member states and takes account of the rules of international and eu law on health and family policy. let us not allow the idea of equality between women and men to be the sole and exclusive field of unnecessary ideological struggle. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. we certainly do, and that is the spirit in which we speak. these issues should be decided by the member states and it is the member states who have the right to set policy on this matter, so i believe that the adoption of the report we are discussing today should absolutely not take place tomorrow. and also, interfering in education, introducing a gender perspective at every level of education, and showing that the source of violence is what are called stereotypical roles, and stereotypical roles are considered to be the role of women as wives and mothers, men as fathers - i say no to this kind of action. member states should decide on education systems, family and pro-family policies.
blue-card question.– we accept and understand that women and men have equal skills and talents. unfortunately, when i am watching tv there is a programme called extreme sports, and there are no women. in all extreme sports there are no women. i think you should demand that there be at least 40% of women jumping on motor cycles and so on. moreover, there is a list of ‘100 best chess players’. we should demand that at least 40% of the best chess players should be women and, of course, if necessary, we should change the rules of chess so that we have at least 40% of women on the list of best chess players. what do you think about this?
abortionism is the most influential, unfortunately, and most repugnant ideology of discrimination today. unfortunately, this ideology also poisons this report, and paragraphs 52 and 68 of the report clearly support this view. in the meantime, there are millions of women in europe who want to be respected in their vocation to motherhood, who want to be respected and who want to be supported. and while we're at it, let me share with you some of the research that we've done in our country. well, they made it clear that the typical abortionist is a young, wealthy, single man, not a young, poor, married woman. let us stand up for the rights of children, but let us also stand up for the rights of women and respect for what is above all fulfilling their natural predispositions to motherhood.
the question of the equality of men before the law and of men before each other is one of the most important civilizational challenges facing mankind. the european union has a leading role to play in achieving this humanitarian objective. at the same time, however, we must tackle the inequalities that exist within the member states themselves. this also applies to inequalities and even discrimination against women. so, first of all, i think that we can't deal with all the different kinds of inequalities between women and men without strengthening education. education and training should therefore be the most powerful tools to combat prejudice, stereotypes and the consequences of viewing the issue through the lens of misconceived tradition or religion. secondly, the most important challenge is faced by politicians. because if conservative forces block civilization change, we're not going to achieve optimal outcomes for gender equality, especially in the short term. so politicians, especially in the individual member states, must take the responsibility for this on their own shoulders. the third and final issue in this synthesis speech the area where radical change is needed is the labour market: employment, including women's wages, and flexible working hours. there will be no equality if women cannot achieve the same level of self-fulfillment in the 21st century society as men. so i think the strategy for gender equality that i've been discussing in most of my writing is very much relevant to the challenges that i've been outlining. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i believe that education should be understood and treated broadly in this context. it is not just about education for children and young people, although i am convinced and i know from experience that in many member states of the european union we do not have a good enough level of education. but this education must not be limited to children and youth. it must be applied to all societies, regardless of age, because these very stereotypes, those inherited from the past and tradition, and sometimes unfortunately also from religion, have and are ingrained in people of different ages.
i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the very difficult situation of farmers - milk producers - in my country, poland. as a result of the russian embargo, as well as the lifting of the milk production limits, the prices of this raw material have already fallen by about 20%. at the same time, farmers will be charged with penalties for exceeding production limits for the second year in a row. the fines will amount to around €150 million and will be levied on farmers' payments for ongoing milk deliveries until september this year, with prices for the raw material delivered to the buying points falling sharply. in this situation, after the fines have been paid, the remaining part of the milk sales revenue is certainly not sufficient to cover the production costs, which means losses and the inability to settle the remaining liabilities of the dairy farms, including credit liabilities. i therefore ask the commission once again to take an interest in the situation of dairy farms in poland and to prepare solutions to support dairy production throughout the union in this very difficult period for milk producers.
mr. chairman, please! in response to the ban on entry into russia imposed on a group of meps, among others, the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, has imposed diplomatic sanctions and restricted interparliamentary contacts. these are the right and timely decisions. although i am on the russian blacklist, i believe that the parliamentary rhetoric was taken much too late. the right moment was the illegal annexation of crimea or the later time when the self-proclaimed authorities massively violated the rights of minorities living there for centuries, or when the minsk agreements were broken signed after all . i believe that the sanctions imposed in this way would have allowed us to avoid the controversial talks with mr pushkov in the afet committee or the equally controversial meetings during the meetings of the union-russia delegation.
madam president! the european commission, in violation of the european council's decisions, is currently pushing the principle of forced and quota-based dispatch of migrants across europe in the name of solidarity but solidarity, which we poles do not need to be taught, is first of all respect for the rights of others. it's respect for mutual agreements. solidarity is, of course, first and foremost respect for the rights that we should already respect. polish farmers still do not receive the same direct subsidies as farmers from the large countries of the european union - those countries that were part of the union when we joined in the 1990s - who benefit from unequal competition, even though our market has been opened without restrictions to western european exports. this injustice must be rectified as soon as possible.
in writing. enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) is the basis for employment growth and development in the union and for the proper functioning of the single market and of the many industries benefiting from such rights. it is also a major catalyst for innovation, creativity and competitiveness. as the european commission points out, high-iqm sectors account for around 39% of eu gdp, or approximately €4.7 billion per year, and provide up to 35% of all jobs. i therefore welcome the eu action plan on ipr enforcement, in particular the focus on targeted information campaigns and the enforcement of rights through a 'follow the money' approach, ensuring that those who commit serious ipr abuse and profit from this illegal practice are punished. however, the commission's ipr enforcement efforts will need to be adapted to the development of the digital single market, which is becoming the main trading venue for counterfeit goods. in this context, online platform owners should be involved in enforcement issues and in efforts to exclude those responsible for infringements in online trade in goods. it should be borne in mind that the trade in counterfeit products not only causes loss of income for businesses and the european economy, leading to job losses, but also poses a threat to the health and safety of consumers.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, what is most important in our relations with russia is to be consistent and united. relations between us and russia have never been as bad as they are now. they are a result of the aggressive policies of president putin. but let us not forget that there is a russia other than the one we are dealing with now – the russia of sakharov, politkovskaya, nemtsov, kovalyov and memorial, and of all those russians, of that great nation, who have been honoured with our sakharov prize. russia is not fulfilling the minsk agreement, and this is at the core of our relationship with and attitude to russia. the position recently taken at the g7 summit – that the g7 is in favour of continuing the sanctions and, if the need arises, increasing them – is the best answer to russia’s present aggressive policy. contrary to what some say, the sanctions which we are applying hurt the core of russia’s economy. thus they should bring a result, despite the fact that, so far, they have not changed the course of the kremlin’s policy. russia has recently blacklisted 89 people from the european union, including 19 members of the european parliament. this is a very hostile act because it attacks the european elite in its relations with russia.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with many of the points made by mrs jaakonsaari, but i lacked the clarity and the determination to 'put a dot on the end'. are the socialists strongly in favour of maintaining sanctions against russia, because this is the main subject of the european union's decision? can we hear a resounding yes to maintaining sanctions?
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. first of all, i would like to express my regret that high representative federica mogherini is not with us in the chamber today. this is an important debate, this is a very important debate. we are talking about a really changing international order and russia, which in this changing order is trying to regain significant influence in the world at the expense of our region - including your region, commissioner. this is done by means of aggressive politics. the consequences of this aggressive policy have also been examined by the governments of which i have had the honour to be a member, because we wanted to maintain, as you did, a dialogue with russia. we wanted this dialogue to be friendly. but we have to be aware of the kind of russian policy that we're dealing with right now. that it is a country that in its doctrines - both in its military doctrine and in its foreign policy conception - assumes strikes in the immediate neighborhood in the event that it considers that russian interests are being violated. and unfortunately, what happens is that russia recognizes the violation of its interests in almost every case, the simplest case. and it is not that the framework of our debate is drawn within the framework of dialogue, economic interests and cultural convergence of our countries. not only because we are facing a really serious threat, also on our territories, hybrid war, armaments in kaliningrad, violation of international legal order. we're dealing with our own indecision. it is essential that sanctions be maintained. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
(interpretation of the blue card question was not available) i just wanted to listen to her question, certainly. i just replied by intuition to one phrase: ‘re-engagement’. but it would be better to listen to the whole question.
blue-card answer. – madam, surely it is extremely necessary to develop a clear vision. in my opinion, russia is now backing off any policy of re—engagement. good examples of this are russia’s decree banning transport to and from afghanistan, and its breaking—off of talks with the minsk contact group led by heidi tagliavini.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. i agree with you that we should be mindful of human contact. we should remember, because power passes, but the nation endures. we should separate the two. but do you agree that in these interpersonal contacts, contacts between young people are particularly important in order to educate young people in the spirit of mutual understanding, tolerance and values close to the union?
mr. chairman, please! i'm being objective in this debate because i'm on the blacklist, too. i thank all my colleagues for their solidarity in this matter. i'm gonna welcome the other guys to the same club. i congratulate mr landsbergis on a very good report, although i think it is appropriate to quote the chinese proverb that the best is the enemy of the good. i think this report would be even better without some amendments, but of course the majority decides. the european parliament must take a firm stand, because a more diplomatic, more orderly european commission or european council will not do it for us. the european parliament has always been more committed to human and civil rights, including in the context of our european neighbours, than other european institutions. we cannot waive that obligation. and that there is in europe, also here, the "party of friends of russia", we all see, know and feel it.
mr president, i have heard plenty of good advice given to russia. elmar brok says that russia is in a catastrophic situation. please bear in mind that the national debt is 13% of gnp. no country occupied by the european union has such a good result. perhaps you should rather listen to some good advice given by the kremlin. i agree that it is not good that moscow is increasing financing of the media, but plenty of russian media are being financed by foreign powers, which is much more dangerous. one should bear in mind the fate of the ukrainian state destroyed by the americans – like syria, egypt, libya. after democratisation, serbia lost kosovo and ukraine has lost crimea and donbas. what would russia lose if the americans arranged a new maidan on red square – and who would acquire it? moreover, i think the european union must be destroyed.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask about the 20th item in the report by mr landsbergis, which deals with financial support for independent organisations. does it have a chance of being implemented in the context of the russian law on agency activity? are we not harming these ngos?
mr. chairman, please! ms. lyubyak here expressed the view that we should distinguish between russian society and the government, and i think that's a very important observation. where does the strength of russian power come from - at this moment, president putin? it's just a matter of social acceptance. i wanted to ask what the vision is, the opinion among the russian public about the european union, if every fifth prime minister of this community of ours goes to russia individually, asks for something there and does not maintain this line that we call the unity of the european union based on our common goals? let's also remember that russia is an important, still global partner for us. it's important that we have a position in the un, it's important that we have a position in the fight against terrorism, including in the fight against isis, in relation to iran and syria, in relation to iraq, and so, as it turns out, we need strategic, reasonable and long-term relations. i disagree with mr. carver, we're not acting imperialistically, we want a principle: don't violate the territorial integrity of your neighbor.
let's not forget that president putin's impunity didn't start in ukraine and hasn't happened since yesterday. poland has still not recovered the black boxes and the wreckage of the government plane on board which polish elite, led by president lech kaczyński, died on 10 april 2010. it's putin who's been investigating the smolensk case for five years. i regret that once again the european parliament's resolution does not call for an international investigation into this matter, that the european union has not helped poland to explain the causes of the smolensk disaster, that the european parliament censored the smolensk exhibition, which only demanded the truth about smolensk, and that the leaders of the largest european countries are hiding the truth about smolensk.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mr landsbergis on his excellent report and i would like to draw attention to three key points. firstly, i would like to stress the need to maintain a united position of the member states towards russia. russia is making efforts to break european solidarity. the european union must speak with one voice in this situation. let us remember that we can only be effective in international politics if we are united. the second case concerns sanctions imposed in response to russia's aggression against ukraine. i would like to point out that this aggression is still ongoing, as evidenced by the attack by separatists on the marina near donetsk. the continued imposition of sanctions is necessary in this situation. russia must pay a high political, economic and financial price for its aggressive policy. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu's 'regional and regional policy' and 'regional and regional policy' programmes. we must effectively counter this russian propaganda and expose and denounce russian agents of influence who are increasingly active in our countries. i ask my colleagues to support mr landsbergis' report.
in writing. the events of the last few days clearly show that moscow does not want a lasting de-escalation of the situation in the east of the continent. over the past dozen months, the union and its member states have given president putin countless opportunities to face up to his predicament. finally, we must accept the fact that the current situation is not the result of unforeseen coincidences, but the deliberate actions of russian politicians. they clearly want to escalate the situation in ukraine and worsen relations with western countries. to this end, russian military planes and ships are violating our territorial space. to do so, the rules of the world trade organization are being violated, and energy resources are being used as an instrument of foreign policy. we have to say this clearly: we did not create this conflict and we are not aggravating it with surprising regularity. even the current crisis of mass illegal immigration into southern europe has its roots in the kremlin's actions. if it were not for moscow's support for the regime of bashar al-assad, the syrian civil war would have ended long ago and there would have been no such tragedy. europe must therefore rethink its relationship with russia. it's not going to be a strategic partnership for years to come. we need a new formula for cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a crisis reserve for the agricultural sector is a necessary financial instrument. in poland, where agriculture is still a significant part of the economy, we have been watching with great concern the struggles of farmers who have tried in vain to find new markets for their products after the russian embargo. i voted in favour of the report on the correction coefficient for direct payments for 2015 because i fully support the rights of farmers in the european union and consider the right to protect their work and property to be one of the most important. i think that the solution adopted in the report by the committee on agriculture, which allows farmers to receive at least partial compensation in the event of a natural disaster or economic crisis, is a good one. the lessons of the past year have taught us that having a financial reserve to draw on in times of crisis is a prerequisite for ensuring stability and further development of the european agricultural economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report setting a correction coefficient for direct payments. i also congratulate the rapporteur, mr ašersky, on his work on this document. i think that additional support for the agricultural sector is particularly important at the moment. the sanctions imposed by russia on the european union have particularly affected european agriculture. the losses of polish farmers alone due to the export ban to russia amount to $500 million. i therefore believe that the inclusion of the proposed amount of eur 441.6 million as a reserve for the crisis in the agricultural sector is right and proper.
in writing. ‒ due to technical problems, i was unable to vote on this report. however, as rapporteur i naturally support it and my intention was to vote in favour of its adoption. the financial discipline mechanism under the cap is a good example of solidarity, as direct payments to farmers for 2015 will be reduced by 1,45 to create a crisis reserve in 2016. this reserve has not been used until now because there was a free budget in the cap for crisis management, which meant that the money went back to the farmers the following year.
the european parliament has just adopted another document directly attacking the most important of the natural human rights, the right to life. this decision is not only a moral choice, it is an action that undermines the credibility of any human rights declaration made by this body. you are leading europe to perdition. if there is not a great awakening of conscience, if there is not a great agreement of people of good will in europe, in all the nations of europe, we will not save the future of our continent, of our civilization. it's a choice between life and what was voted to be death today.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 because it violates treaty law and the fundamental principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaties. the european union does not have and should not have competence in the field of family law. in addition, the document is aggressive towards unborn children. it contains statements calling on the european commission to actively promote abortion not only among eu member states. i do not agree with the model of reproductive rights that this report has launched, which promotes the postulate of access to abortion as a human right and a reflection of women's freedom and equality. that's why i supported the first amendment, which was an alternative resolution emphasizing the principle of subsidiarity. this amendment, in contrast to the spread of the ideology of gender, called for the modernization and improvement of the conditions of pregnant women and working mothers to make it easier for them to reconcile their professional and private lives. i regret that the european parliament has accepted mrs noichl's report instead of the balanced proposal presented in the alternative resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 has generated a lot of controversy, including on the subsidiarity principle. this non-legislative document has above all a political value, setting the standard and direction for equality policies in europe. i think the most important chapters are those on women in the labour market, which talk about the need to reduce the employment, wage and pension gaps, which in europe are 11%, 17% and 39% respectively. as a result, women are poorer than men and more likely to be victims of domestic and sexual violence. economic independence and equal opportunities in access to the labour market, including senior positions, are important tenets of this report. on the issues of differentiating positions within the group, i voted for the maternity directive, quotas on company boards, the anti-violence directive and the european observatory on violence, incentives for paternity and parental leave, easier access to in vitro, quotas on electoral rolls, access to reproductive health and rights services, reproductive health education and incentives for research and gender studies. as in the previous report on this subject, i was against the paragraphs on increasing access to abortion for social reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. in the context of this report, i would like to draw attention again to the issue of maternity leave and the importance of education in promoting gender equality, combating violence and promoting equal work for equal pay. in today's highly competitive job market, many women are afraid to become mothers for fear of losing their jobs. it is therefore essential to ensure that they are protected also after the end of the maternity period and to guarantee social protection for women who, due to the nature of their employment relationship (service contract), do not benefit from maternity leave at all. we cannot tackle the ageing population unless we take action to stimulate demographic growth by protecting women's rights. in the context of educational activities, we need elements of equality policy in educational programmes to teach young people mutual respect, tolerance and to fight against various types of prejudice and stereotypes. social campaigns that draw attention to relevant issues, mobilize action and promote certain norms, behaviours and values also play an important role in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the report is a blow to the european union and the values it grew up on. the provisions interfere with the competence of the member states and are incompatible with national legislation. fortunately, the adoption of this report does not entail any major consequences, since it is a non-legislative report and has no legal force. it is a victory of ideology over law and can be used by lgbt communities to push leftist gender ideology. the noichl report is based on the unfounded assumption that abortion is a human right. it also addresses interference in education through gender mainstreaming, promotes lgbt parenting, and undermines the institution of the family. such reports are a threat to the existence of a healthy society because they undermine what is at its core, namely the inalienable dignity of the human person and the natural differences between women and men. instead, they impose a gendered view of society, of a small segment of society that is facing rejection and marginalization, as the natural state of affairs. so we need to focus on building a strong and cohesive society, based on the traditional family, which is the best place for human development.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy for equality between women and men for the period after 2015, adopted by the european parliament, is a very damaging and dangerous document. first of all, the very fact that it's there is a misunderstanding. it not only interferes with the exclusive competence of the member states to decide on worldview issues, but also defines social problems in a wrong way, full of ideological prejudices and simplifications. secondly, it presents socially harmful phenomena such as abortion and gender ideology in a one-sided and biased way, and it refers in a critical and inconsistent way to the social roles of women and men, the traditional model of the family and the right of every human being to life from the moment of conception. this strategy is an example of very damaging social engineering and the negative impact of the radical voice of homosexual and far-left communities on the european political class - a voice that europe should not listen to under any circumstances if it wants to face the social and demographic crisis that affects it. i hope we can keep this worldview madness going. i voted against the document, of course.
i'm not going to let you do this. i have never been and will never be a supporter of a climate policy in which the european union acts almost alone and the major emitters - the united states, canada, japan - do not impose similar restrictions on themselves. the union's 2020 commitments have, unfortunately, long since become a fait accompli. poland was one of the countries that contributed most to reducing emissions during this period, although some member states increased their emissions significantly. contrary to popular belief, my country is the main polluter of europe, and today we account for only about 8% of the total emissions of the european union, and per capita emissions are only slightly above the european average. higher rates are found in germany, the netherlands and luxembourg, for example. i therefore believe that the union's accession to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol must fairly reflect the burden that individual countries have taken on themselves in reducing emissions. the council's proposed decision is in that direction and can therefore count on our moderate support.
madam president! i would like to start by making it clear that i consider the extension of the kyoto protocol to be an important step in the fight for a better climate for our planet. however, i share the rapporteur's concern that the efforts to reduce emissions are being made mainly by european countries, while the most polluting countries do not seem to be as determined. in march, the union's position was set for the forthcoming climate summit in paris. a very ambitious position, talking about even more reductions after 2020. i believe that a realistic, broad international agreement based on voluntary action is better than the imposition of specific binding targets, which we decide to adopt only in the context of the 28 member states. at the same time, i believe that it is clear that the obligations of individual countries should vary, since the poorest countries are not in a position to meet such ambitious standards. i think it's time that the major polluting countries also made a greater effort and signed a joint international agreement.
member of the commission. madam president, i am pleased to take part in this debate on the european energy security strategy. i would like to extend my sincere thanks to all the honourable members who will be taking part in it, but i am especially grateful to mr saudargas and all the rapporteurs for the efforts they have made to produce this balanced report from the european parliament on a subject which is very topical, but at the same time very sensitive. i would also like to thank you for the excellent cooperation you have maintained with the commission throughout this process, providing us with many opportunities to share and explain our views. the draft report before us is an excellent result of the work and commitment to energy security, which is in addition to the political impetus we have wanted to give to this and other matters with the energy union. let me explain why we think this is an important report. firstly, because it maintains and reinforces a balanced and comprehensive approach to energy security. energy security is a very complex issue requiring action in different policy areas and at various levels of decision-making. we need to maintain this balanced approach if we are to successfully tackle this collective challenge. in this sense, the draft report reflecting the structure of the energy security strategy of may 2014 seeks to respond not only to our short-term challenges, however politically sensitive they may be, but looks beyond them, taking into account strategic priorities, both within and outside the european union. in this broad concept of energy security, the achievement of a genuine internal energy market is fundamental, as are research and innovation. i would like to congratulate myself on the fact that the draft report we are discussing today has placed particular emphasis on the need to moderate energy demand and increase domestic production, mainly from renewable energy sources. the commission fully shares this approach. we will continue to build on this strong political message from parliament, especially in the context of the next cop 21 conference later this year, with the aim of achieving a historic agreement to combat climate change. at the same time, this draft report, in its external dimension, mentions the most urgent supply problems we face and highlights very clearly the dependence on a single supplier for energy resources, with the resulting vulnerability and lack of competition, because it can impede economic growth and endanger the national security of the european union. the commission shares this view. so, we're going to work to diversify our sources and supply routes. to this end, we will continue to work on the southern gas corridor, the mediterranean and algeria, as well as relations with our traditional partners such as norway, the united states and canada. i have already visited several of these countries in recent months, aware that a diversification of routes and suppliers is fundamental for the european union. in northern europe, the establishment of liquefied gas hubs, with multiple suppliers, is greatly improving security of supply, and this example should be followed in central and eastern europe and the mediterranean area. in this regard, we are preparing a liquefied natural gas and storage strategy to be adopted later this year, together with the revision of the regulation on the security of gas supply, two key pieces for diversifying supply and being prepared in the event of gas supply disruptions. i was also pleased to note that the report again stresses the need to speak with one voice on the international scene and calls on the commission to develop a proposal for mandatory ex ante evaluations of intergovernmental agreements with regard to their impact on the internal energy market and their compatibility with european union law. i can assure you that the commission is working on this and plans to present a proposal in the first half of 2016. finally, i would like to stress the emphasis the draft report places on the energy union strategy, adopted by the commission in february this year. as you know, energy security is one of the three overarching objectives of the commission's energy union strategy. our energy must be secure, competitive and sustainable. of course, the three objectives are interdependent and go hand in hand. the implementation of the european energy security strategy has therefore been fully integrated as a core element of the energy union strategy. we are planning to publish the first report on the implementation of the key actions related to the european energy security strategy at the end of this year and i am confident that dialogue in the european parliament will be, throughout the process, a key pillar of our action.
blue-card question.– can you tell us the price which russia is taking from ukraine, and the price which russia is taking from poland or germany?
madam president, energy security is certainly a crucial subject for us, and we have two sides of the coin: external and internal. internally, indigenous energy resources are the most important consideration. of course, efficiency is very important – nobody disagrees with that – and so are renewables, new technologies, and also clean coal technologies. if we use coal in a clean way – in an environmentally-friendly way – we can achieve a lot in terms of energy security. in the internal energy market, infrastructure is also absolutely necessary, as is implementing the existing law. and, of course, there is an energy community. eight countries surround the european union, making for an energy union of 36. we should build an energy union of 36, not just 28. i am glad that, externally, the first eu-usa energy round table, which we held two weeks ago in the european parliament, was a success, because we should cooperate closely with all our partners – in the west, the east, the north and the south. another important issue is energy solidarity. sometimes we omit this issue, but we have written it into our treaties, and energy solidarity is so important. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i am very interested in strengthening this sector. thank you for this remark, but we do not have as many forests as sweden does. probably you are the best country in europe from this point of view. we must remember that forests could be the most important source of biomass and biofuels, maybe second-generation or third-generation biofuels – not first-generation biofuels. we checked properly that the first generation was a mistake for all of us.
the question asked by raising the blue card. what do you think, mrs van brempt, about coal gasification, where we can simultaneously produce gas, electricity and heat using our coal, and at the same time use the co2 produced up to 40% in the production of methanol and then in the production of plastics? i'm talking about clean coal technologies. this gives us a huge opportunity, also in terms of new jobs.
madam president! the european energy security strategy is the next stage in the construction of the energy union. the completion of this project is the foundation of the european union today. among the many important demands for the energy efficiency of the internal market and the increase of domestic energy production, special attention should be paid to conventional and non-conventional energy sources within the european union. no discrimination can be allowed between any of the energy sources. i would like to draw particular attention to the increasingly clean and efficient technologies for coal combustion and shale gas production. these are the two most important factors in ensuring energy independence in europe based on indigenous resources and have a major impact on energy prices, especially electricity prices, which are among the highest in the world in the european union.
the advantage of the european energy security strategy is that it recognises the need to diversify energy supplies and sources. it is also important that it strengthens regional cooperation in the field of energy. these are very important postulates. but we cannot be uncritical of this document. i personally am very strongly opposed to the decarbonization postulate. for countries like poland, decarbonising the economy means the collapse of many jobs and the increase in energy poverty. the disregard for this problem undermines the idea of european union solidarity and the sincerity of the intentions in building a strong european union economy. you say that countries like poland have to adapt and have to give up fossil fuels. you say these words and demands lightly and without deep reflection. you don't care what it costs my country and a few other countries. you don't care who pays for it. do you know that meeting these demands will mean the loss of 500,000 jobs in my country over the next decade? who will compensate, and how? it's easy to talk about decarbonization to you, the rich countries, whose economies have been unfettered by any such restrictions for decades and have been growing unfettered. ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence of the president, an energy-safe european union is one that respects the interests of all its members, not just the strongest players. i ask you to remember that. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i didn't hear the question, but i will say that when it comes to energy costs, there is no cheaper cost than that of fossil fuels, which is coal, which in my country represents 90% of all energy resources, which is all the energy resources from which we get electricity. the cost of renewable energy is very high, and if it weren't for the subsidies that it gets, it would be incomparably higher than the energy that we get from coal or gas, for example.
i hope my foreword will return to health and strength. to return to the subject, the european energy security strategy should be one of the community's most important documents. it is concerned with ensuring a good future, development and relative independence from energy or energy sources outside the territory of the member states. a document of this kind should therefore be narrowed down to the strategically necessary priorities. the energy union and the policies of the member states should play a part in this. one of the main pillars of this strategy should be the strong involvement of indigenous energy sources, which are the key to external independence. the commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market. emphasis should also be placed on supporting research and development of modern clean technologies from indigenous sources. unfortunately, the strategy under discussion does not in principle provide for such assumptions, on the contrary. for these reasons, it is more an ideological position than a substantive one. for these reasons, it is a document that, i'm sorry to say, will be difficult to accept.
madam president, i am sorry but the best description of this report is the german word ‘scheiße’ – thousands of words, politically correct, with no real meaning. perhaps i am the only one who read through it. i would ask you to read through chapter i, for example, to see what is in this report. the discussion here has also been absurd. somebody said that russia is waging war on ukraine through gas sales, but when i asked for the price he refused to answer because this price is one third lower than the price at which they are selling gas to poland or germany. this is not a war: it is cartel assistance. china and the united states have gas four times cheaper than in europe – four times cheaper! it is shale gas. now, when i hear that the last american company withdrew from poland last week because of bureaucratic obstacles, i find myself asking whether they were obstacles or perhaps gazprom agents. when i hear all these tales about gas sales again, i have to ask whether i am listening to a huge idiot or an agent of gazprom.
madam president! i think that no one in this room needs to be convinced of the enormous importance of the european union's energy security and of the impact it has on our position, on the political and economic position of europe, especially in the context of the crises that are at european borders. i believe that the european union should step up its efforts to diversify its energy supply, because we cannot rely on a single source, which comes from a country as insecure as russia, a country that is clearly challenging eu rules and using energy for political purposes. but there is another aspect to this: i believe that energy security, the security of the european union, cannot be based solely on renewable energy and be identified with it. i think we should do everything we can to make the use of energy sources such as shale gas available in european countries, which i am convinced will help to increase the diversification and increase the security of the european union countries in terms of energy.
energy security, or more broadly, the energy union, is already a permanent part of the european union's vocabulary. the battle of words has been won. no wonder, since we are under the influence of such an important geopolitical lesson as the one provided by modern ukraine. the previous disruptions to the gas supply were not enough to teach a lesson. that lesson is enough, but if we don't question the goals, then our collective responsibility is implementation, so that energy security doesn't share the fate of all those declarations that remain declarations. as usual, the most difficult challenge is to balance the eu's climate and energy agenda. i believe that the original report by deputy saudargas is on that track. it also follows our efforts, which i remember from the end of the barroso commission, and which resulted in the proposal to bring together the climate and energy agendas, as happened in the case of commissioner cañete. if this balance is not achieved, it is difficult to achieve other objectives: competitiveness, security, reindustrialisation, and it is bad if the union declares objectives and fails to achieve them. what is striking in these documents is the poorly defined, timidly defined external aspect of the coordination of eu policies towards the main suppliers. but i also see amendments that are unbalancing the climate and energy agenda and therefore don't seem to deserve support.
madam president! the energy union is intended to be a consensus between climate priorities and a strategy for security of energy supply, low prices and competitiveness. this will be achieved through strategic investments on the one hand and increased energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy on the other. the current efficiency directive is flawed because it presupposes the same reduction in energy use in eu countries with different energy use. the efficiency ratio as a policy objective for member states should take into account the gdp per capita of those countries. the aim of the new directive cannot be to reduce energy use but to increase its physical efficiency as the main method of decarbonisation. in the diverse economies of eu countries, which differ greatly in energy consumption, the lack of a way of calculating this target - different for whole countries and different for industrial sectors - does not stimulate innovation in both efficiency and renewable energy investments. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company that is not subject to the obligation to provide the relevant information to the commission.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr saudargas on his report and thank him for the hard work he has done. i fully support many points included in the report. for example, the rapporteur correctly emphasises the need to reduce the eu’s dependence on foreign energy sources, including russian oil and gas, and to establish an energy union in europe. nevertheless, the current version of the text is, in my opinion, not as good as the original draft. the main weakness of the document is that it is one-sided and focused excessively on environmental and climate aspects of energy policy at the cost of energy security as such. a good illustration of these biased proportions is that the word ‘renewable’ appears 74 times in the text of the report, while the word ‘competitiveness’ only appears 10 times. clearly, the issue of the impact of the energy security strategy on the growth and competitiveness of european companies is not given sufficient attention. another weakness of the report is that it largely ignores the potential role of some indigenous sources of energy such as clean coal and shale gas. in particular, the issue of clean coal has not been discussed at all, which i found very surprising. the report is very optimistic on the issue of expanding energy generation from renewables. however, there is no solid evidence that a massive and rapid shift from fossil fuels to renewables is indeed technologically feasible and economically viable in the foreseeable future. i hope, commissioner, that these points will be taken into consideration.
in writing. energy security is undoubtedly a pillar of the energy union. recent events in eastern ukraine, as well as the european commission's stress tests last year, have clearly demonstrated the dangers of energy dependence. i believe that the european union should therefore make it a priority to diversify gas supplies and to reduce its dependence on third countries. i am glad that mr saudargas has made this clear in his report and that he has called for the acceleration of the diversification of suppliers, routes and sources of energy, which i believe is the right thing to do. i also think it is extremely important that the european union, as a powerful market and one of the world's largest energy markets, should speak with one voice on key issues such as the turkish stream project.
in writing. given that energy security is closely linked to political independence, the eu should work towards a common and effective energy security strategy. it should be remembered that the eu still imports as much as 53% of its energy and many member states are dependent on a single external source. in addition, a significant proportion of energy imports come from politically unstable regions, which significantly increases the threat to energy security. the eu should therefore work together to create an internal energy market, develop energy technologies and diversify energy supplies. however, the european energy strategy should build on the diversity of member states' energy resources. the new criteria for a low-carbon, renewable energy economy must take into account the situation of countries that rely on coal for energy production. the new strategy cannot be implemented at the expense of those countries whose primary energy source is coal. we all agree that we need a coherent and long-term energy strategy, but it must be based on fair conditions.
in writing. the eu's approach to energy security is changing to its benefit. in recent years, it has become clear that the level of this security is fundamental to europe's standing, its economy and the lives of its citizens. it is worth remembering that 53% of total energy consumption in the union is still covered by imported energy and many member states are dependent on a single external supplier. the european parliament should therefore strongly support the european commission's efforts to not only increase security of supply but also to move towards the european energy union. the basis for such a union should be close coordination of the energy policies of the individual countries and the presentation of a common position in contacts with suppliers.
unlike my colleagues in the socialist and green groups, i'm not suspicious. i do not assume that the smart border system is a threat to fundamental rights. but the truth is that the ball is in the court of the european commission, and especially commissioner avramopoulos. we should expect much more clarity from the commission, a precise explanation of the added value, a timetable of work, a timetable today for the next renewed legislative acts. if the commissioner had been more clear and precise, perhaps the discussion would not have been so general and so marked by suspicion.
in writing. fully exploiting the potential of the smart borders package can bring tangible benefits to border management by enhancing europe's capacity to reduce illegal migration, ensure the return of illegal migrants and combat terrorism. the smart border package should give priority to security and counter-terrorism, which implies considering the possibility of making the system available to security services, taking into account the principles of proportionality. in this context, we should ensure adequate data protection at both national and community level. another aspect is to optimise the budget allocated to the creation of the system, assuming greater interoperability with existing national systems. here, the climatic conditions and the specificities of the different border controls should be taken into account: climatic conditions, different lengths of borders, number of border crossings and volume of passenger traffic, infrastructure, etc. for example, in the case of poland, it is estimated that this will require the recruitment of 60 additional consular officers, at a cost of eur 100 000 per year. we also need to answer the question of whether we are effectively using the potential of the systems currently in place, such as sis ii, and whether the costs have been correctly estimated. we can't afford to accept a project that will end up costing more, and we don't know yet if the result will be as good as the initial assumptions.
mr. chairman, please! it is with a certain amount of surprise that i welcome our debate today. i agree with all these concerns, with the statement that it is not working, but we are in the situation that one party, the monitoring committee, has submitted a report. the olaf report, which nobody reads, is ready in four or six days. if we as a parliament want - and i think we should - to have an equal distance to both institutions, we should not be making such clear-cut statements today on the basis of what the advisory committee has been kind enough to write. because if olaf's report is different, and we don't know what it is - we haven't discussed this - we could find ourselves in a rather complicated situation, which is to contribute to the disintegration of these institutions, to deepening the various kinds of quarrels, instead of looking for what we have in common. so i want to make it very clear that we're not making any decisions today. we are waiting for the olaf report in the committee on budgetary control. let's evaluate them objectively and then try to determine who's right here. i would urge extreme restraint, for that is our duty.
mr president, i absolutely reject commissioner avramopoulos’s remarks. i am sorry, mr avramopoulos, but you said that the european anti-fraud office (olaf) should engage in dialogue with the supervisory committee. the supervisory committee does not need a dialogue with anybody: it is here to supervise and not to dialogue. you say that olaf did this, and olaf did that. it was not olaf, but the director-general, mr kessler, and the problem here is with mr kessler, not with olaf. we should look directly at the activities of mr kessler, because he does not investigate officials of the european union; he investigates external firms. moreover, mr avramopoulos, do you know – or perhaps it is only gossip – that mr kessler has promised ms catherine day that he will give her information on the investigations led by olaf? you should check whether this is true.
mr. chairman, please! the russian resolution contains many important and valuable words, but it is a pity that it does not contain a clear condemnation of communism. europe should not stand by and watch as bolshevik criminals like lenin, dzerzhinsky and kalinin are still worshipped in russia, and the russians should know that we are not fighting their country or their culture, but the continuation of the soviet system, which has done them and them in particular so much harm.
mr president, i voted against, for different reasons, but the main one is that it is self-contradictory. i am reading point 14: parliament ‘is deeply concerned with russia’s support for, and financing of, radical and extremist parties in the eu member statesʼ, while in point 20 we say: ‘calls on the commission to programme more ambitious financial assistance to russian civil society from the existing external financial instrumentsʼ. exactly what russia is forbidden to do, the european union is called on to do. point 19: ‘strongly condemns the governmentsʼ – certain governmentsʼ –‘continued crackdown on dissent by targeting independent ngos through the so-called “foreign agents lawsˮ’. point 21: ‘calls on the commission to propose legislation forbidding financing of political parties in the eu by political and or economic stakeholders outside the euʼ. so, what russia is forbidden to do is allowed for us. the russians would love it if they did it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the state of eu-russia relations because i believe that eu-russia relations will not improve unless they are built on mutual trust and truth. for many years, the european union has called russia a strategic partner. it is good that the european parliament is finally breaking with the illusion of a strategic partnership and admitting that it is impossible in a situation where russia is violating the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, breaking the fundamental principles of the international order. i also supported the report by mr landsbergis because it called for the return to poland of the black boxes and the wreckage of the tu154m plane on which the polish elite, led by president lech kaczyński, were killed. but i regret that once again the european parliament's resolution does not include a call for an international investigation, especially at a time when the german prosecutor general has opened a preliminary inquiry into whether there was an attack in smolensk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr landsbergis because i believe that relations between the union and russia have not been as bad as they have been in the last few months. although they have not been formally dissolved, the actions of the russian side make it difficult to talk about any cooperation or dialogue. as mr landsbergis rightly pointed out in his report, the resumption of cooperation should be considered, but certain conditions must be met in advance. first of all, russia must respect the inviolability of ukraine's borders and implement the minsk agreements. i consider this a necessary condition for the start of the rebuilding of our relations. however, while the union should be firm in its expectations, let us remember that the long-term objective should be to have a stable partner in russia, one that respects democratic norms, law and international agreements. we share many common interests with russia, and good cooperation can bring mutual benefits in the economic, environmental and global security fields.
in writing. ‒ tensions with the russian federation are the result of the kremlin's aggressive actions, which completely ignore the principles of law, trade and diplomacy. the involvement in the conflict in ukraine and the annexation of crimea, as well as the unjustified embargo on products from the eu, the ban on the entry of european politicians, including members of the european parliament, show how russia is becoming an enemy to the west. in response, the european union has imposed economic sanctions on russia, introduced individual visa restrictions, and cancelled international meetings involving russia. all sanctions will be lifted if russia fulfils the commitments made in the minsk agreements of september 2014 and february 2015. the best path we can take now is constructive dialogue, countering propaganda and promoting democracy in both ukraine and russia. supporting those who want change for the better. russia must learn to respect the law - both international law and human rights. however, any action to improve the situation requires increased coordination at diplomatic level, a common position and solidarity among member states. we can't speak with many voices and make deals behind the backs of others. we must not allow russia to destabilize europe!
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the european parliament resolution on the state of eu-russia relations. the eu-russia political relationship is currently strained by russia's disturbing actions in contravention of international law. nevertheless, i believe that we must nevertheless focus on reviving the union-russia dialogue, seeking further peaceful, diplomatic and joint solutions to problems and rebuilding our relations. we all know that rulers pass away and nations remain. what we do now will affect the way we treat people in the future. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a key player in the world economy. i fully agree with the rapporteur that people-to-people contacts should be strengthened, inter alia, through the erasmus+ programme.
in writing. ‒ the report reflects the position of the european union. in the current situation, russia, because of its actions in crimea and eastern ukraine, can no longer be considered a strategic partner, and it is therefore important that the union as a whole takes a firm and united position. it is therefore good that the resolution has been adopted in this form, stressing not only the disapproval of the military actions of russian troops in ukraine, but also the negative attitude towards the situation of respect for civil rights in russia. this also applies to the russian threat to the eu's energy security. i am also pleased that the final text of the resolution includes a call for russia to immediately return the wreckage and all the black boxes of the polish plane that crashed near smolensk and that this issue be raised in all bilateral contacts with the russian authorities. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution on eu-russia relations. in the face of russia's aggressive policies and its complete disregard for human rights and international standards and obligations stemming from its membership of the un, the council of europe and the osce, it is imperative that europe acts in solidarity in the name of defending our common values and principles such as democracy and the rule of law. any resumption of cooperation with russia can only take place under clear conditions: respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine (including crimea), full implementation of the minsk agreements of 5 and 19 september 2014 and 12 february 2015, and cessation of destabilising activities within the borders of the eu member states. moreover, the situation requires us to take concrete preventive steps against russian propaganda and disinformation campaigns that deliberately destabilise and antagonise eu cooperation with its eastern neighbours. in the current circumstances, i am also concerned about the fact that russian nationalist forces are in close contact and cooperation with the most radical european political parties. i see this as a significant threat to our democratic order. for this reason, i support the proposal for a regulation banning the financing of political parties by political and economic actors outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ a proper definition of the current state of eu-russia relations is key to developing the right policy towards our great eastern neighbour. we can no longer hide from ourselves that the policy of dialogue at all costs and treating russia as a strategic partner will lead to a change in the kremlin's policy. even those politicians and parties who wanted to talk to russia when russian troops occupied crimea see this now. it is true that in many places the tone of this report could and should be more forceful. we have too often shown weakness to do so again, but it is hard not to see that the ep's position is heading in the right direction. we cannot give up all the pressure we have on russia. we cannot forget that it was russia that started the war in eastern ukraine. we cannot forget that russia has annexed parts of the territory of ukraine, our important partner. no one is denying dialogue with moscow once and for all, but now, in these political conditions, we cannot renounce sanctions and diplomatic pressure. russia needs to change its policy, and we need to do everything we can to help it do that. the future of not only ukraine, georgia and moldova, but also the european union itself depends on this.
in writing. ‒ the need to increase the union's energy security has been discussed for many years. progress has certainly been made, but much remains to be done. the very fact that there is still not enough transmission infrastructure between member states and that there are therefore so-called energy islands shows how grossly neglected we are. how can we talk about the energy security of the union if there is no interconnected area in practice? so it seems to me that this is the direction that we should be going in first. if we make the union an energy area, we can more easily deepen our cooperation, whether through the creation of an energy union or through the creation of real solidarity mechanisms. unfortunately, i was eventually forced to vote against the report on the strategy for energy security because of the very unfavourable provisions on coal mining, shale gas or the use of nuclear energy. i believe that only by making intelligent use of our natural resources will europe be able to ensure its energy security. therefore, support for sources such as coal and shale gas is necessary.
in writing. ‒ the current geopolitical situation is forcing the eu to step up its efforts to create a self-sufficient energy market and to provide energy security for europe's citizens. more than half of the energy consumed in europe today comes from imports, and many member states obtain their energy from a single source or from a single external supplier. meanwhile, the crisis in ukraine and russia's behavior have shown how unreliable a partner it is and how much it can flout our rules. it is necessary to find new sources of energy and new, stable suppliers, and and perhaps above all to develop the internal energy market. the energy security strategy must be a long-term strategy, taking into account a wide range of aspects, such as increasing local energy production and rational distribution, technological development and upgrading of existing production units, innovation in renewable energy and social campaigns to encourage sustainable, energy-efficient management. we must also not forget the potential of the agricultural sector in this area. biofuel production must be an important part of the energy strategy. the european union's proper energy policy is one in which we remember solidarity and mutual trust; one in which we stand united and present a common position in negotiations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ to ensure energy security, we need to focus on renewable energy, promote energy efficiency and invest the money we spend on expensive imported fuel in developing our green technology industry and creating new jobs.
in writing. ‒ a key priority in the implementation of the european energy security strategy must be to ensure that no country in the union is left without excessive interruptions in energy supplies from a single supplier. this requires, among other things, diversifying supply sources, creating more connections between member states and modernising existing transmission networks. in poland, a significant part of the power plant and transmission networks is outdated, decapitalised and inefficient. the poor state of the technical infrastructure is a very serious threat to energy security. i also draw attention to the question of energy prices. ensuring an adequate level of energy security in the eu should take into account the guarantee of affordable energy prices for all eu citizens. for example, given the differences in purchasing power between eu countries, poles pay some of the highest energy prices. in addition, one in four union citizens was affected by energy poverty in 2012. citizens must also be adequately informed about energy prices, opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption.
in writing. ‒ as co-rapporteur for the epp group on the report on the european energy security strategy, i have spent the last months working hard on this document so that it can be approved by the european parliament. unfortunately, his final version was unacceptable, so i voted against it. the document put to the vote, although it contains many positive solutions, such as strengthening the internal energy market, calling for greater coordination in the choice of energy suppliers between member states and reducing the eu's dependence on a single supplier, as a whole fails to achieve its objective of increasing energy security for the european union and its member states. it should be stressed that the european energy security strategy is a document of particular importance and as such should be formulated on the basis of strictly defined priorities. however, the final version of the treaty became an ideological manifesto: if implemented, many of its provisions would firstly jeopardise the economic and therefore social development of the european union and secondly would not guarantee the energy security that europe so badly needs.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report by algirdas saudargas on the european energy security strategy. this report shows the path the european union has taken in recent years to make energy security one of the cornerstones of the eu's overall security. the problem with europe is that we are mostly dependent on energy supplies from outside the eu. this puts the union countries in a particularly difficult position, since they are today effectively condemned to a monopoly of one supplier. i think that the announcement in the report of increased funding for investments that would allow the supply of gas and oil from different countries is particularly important. it's investments in gas ports, in new industrial networks, in interconnectors. it is good that additional funds are being provided for research which would reduce the consumption of energy in europe. poland has a vital interest in the eu pursuing a common policy on energy security. therefore, i wholeheartedly support the contents of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is an example of how the title of a document can be misleading and conceal harmful content that is completely out of touch with real needs. today, europe's energy security is primarily about conventional energy sources the stability of oil and gas supplies to and from conflict-affected areas, the state and development of the transmission infrastructure, diversification of suppliers and independence from energy sources purchased in russia, the modernisation of the coal-based energy sector and investment in exploration and exploitation of shale gas. these are real problems for our energy sector, which is responsive to the needs of the european economy. these are the issues that require rapid responses and a coherent strategy. instead, we are facing yet another attempt to accelerate the economically and socially damaging process of decarbonization and to impose further constraints on the shaping of our energy mix. such a definition of energy security is a misunderstanding of the basic problems of this sector and another attempt to beat economies based on conventional energy sources, including the polish economy. we cannot accept the climate dictates of the rich eu countries at the expense of the economically weaker ones.
as a former minister of justice in the czech republic, i have had contact with olaf and i respect and consider its work important. on the other hand, i have today endorsed the annual report of the supervisory committee of this office, which is fundamentally critical. it concerns the way in which the olaf investigation office cooperates with the supervisory committee, which is to exercise a certain control over the activities of the olaf investigation office. i believe that if the judiciary is to function well, it must be independent, but on the other hand, it must be subject to legal democratic control so that it does not abuse its power. this report clearly states that the supervisory committee is putting recommendations, about 51, on the table and olaf is not following them. it is therefore necessary for the commission to ensure that the activities of the supervisory committee in relation to olaf are not applied and that the control is not working.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion, but i was speaking against mr kessler, the director-general of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). of course, he is a socialist, and every socialist is an enemy of mankind, but i voted against him not because he is a socialist. if he were a conservative libertarian i would also have voted against him. however, what i have observed in the discussion is that all the social democrats were defending mr kessler when trying to postpone the decision. this is very dangerous. i am happy that the motion by petri sarvamaa and ingeborg grässle was adopted.
in writing. ‒ on 4 may 2015, the supervisory committee presented its annual report on the activities of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). olaf was not invited to respond. the supervisory committee makes a number of very critical points: it questions olaf’s independence, transparency, respect for subsidiarity and proportionality. in such a situation, we should have had the opportunity to listen to the responses of olaf’s director-general.
mr. chairman, please! it's not that the debate in hungary about immigration violates european values, because how can you even discuss punishing for thought, for opinion, for democratic procedures? it is a violation of european values to threaten hungary with article 7, which means that it will be deprived of the rights enjoyed by every country in the european union. our societies have the right to discuss immigration, they have the right to decide their own future. in fact, today we see entire nations paying the price for the fact that yesterday politicians denied them the right to debate immigration. we will defend the hungarian right.
in writing. ‒ this resolution clarifies that changes to the legal system of a member state which are incompatible with the values on which the european union is founded are unacceptable. this is why we condemn viktor orbán's repeated statements calling for a debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty. hungary is an important part of the european union and we want the hungarians to be aware that they have inalienable, fundamental rights that cannot be taken away from them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in hungary because i believe it addresses in a comprehensive way the threats to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in hungary over the past year. the repeated statements by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, which have provoked debate on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary, are very dangerous and pose a threat to the eu treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am pleased that the resolution includes an appeal to prime minister viktor orbán that as head of government he has a duty to promote eu values and to lead by example. i also welcome the commitment of the hungarian prime minister to refrain from reintroducing the death penalty in hungary. it is also good that the resolution also calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to establish a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as a means of respecting and enforcing the provisions of the charter and the treaties signed by all member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation with regard to fundamental rights: standards and practices in hungary. the obligations with regard to the values of the european union – such as human dignity, democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights, including freedom of speech, the right to a fair trial, freedom of assembly and the right not to be discriminated against – continue to apply to each and every member state. i am very concerned about the hungary’s progressive breaching of the basic common principles that our integration was built on. while democratically elected authorities have the power and the right to review and reshape national law, in doing so they should respect the principles of democracy prevailing in the eu. the continued actions of, and regulations introduced by, the hungarian political majority have been marked by an absence of adequate consultation with political opposition and civil society, and have resulted in violations of judicial independence and impartiality, private ownership rights and the rights of minorities, and in constraints on the media and press freedom, inter alia. this urgent situation has left us with no choice but to initiate in-depth monitoring, having in mind possible application of the procedure under article 7 of the eu treaty.
on behalf of the ecr group. in the russian resolution we said today that we must be prepared to confront russia based on our soft power. but what we really need to realize is the true nature of the challenge that putin is throwing to his neighbors and the west. his policy is summed up in this simple doctrine that he has put forth: that for him the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the twentieth century was the collapse of the soviet union. and putin's policy is simply to rebuild this prison of nations, although of course he wants to change the facade of this prison and repaint its walls. but the goal remains the same. who's he talking to? in eastern europe, it was mainly to people who had learned to treat the soviet union as a normal reality, and at the same time to be guided by an irrational sense of threat from the west, a threat that never existed. if putin was confident that georgia's accession to the atlantic alliance would be the answer to his annexation of crimea, the war in eastern ukraine would not have happened. and our policy must be, first and foremost, a policy of consistent regional balance. and the second thing is, we must always remember the geopolitical function of the black sea. the black sea has always been a bridge and a road between europe and central asia, and it should regain that function. that is why we are calling in this report for the resumption of work on the nabucco pipeline, the link that will link central asia and europe in terms of energy. i hope that these challenges are followed by genuine action.
the question asked by raising the blue card. in the 1980s, the european left, or at least part of the european left, showed solidarity with the peoples of eastern europe who were fighting for freedom against the soviet union, against the communist dictatorship. we remember that time well. what happened to the leftist tradition that today you are going to the agenda over the desire of ukrainians to live in a free world, to live with europe? what happened to the leftist tradition that you're skipping that commitment today?
mr. chairman, please! in my view, the report rightly points out that more than the union's restraint in responding to russian aggression and russia's violation of georgia's territorial integrity in 2008 could have encouraged russia to take similar action in ukraine. unfortunately, there was no european determination at the time. if all european leaders had adopted the attitude of president lech kaczynski, who was accused of being anti-russian, the situation in ukraine might not have been so dramatic today, and russia might have been much more cautious in its expansionist ambitions. that is why it is so important today for the union to take a firm stand - a factual one, not just a verbal one - against the annexation of crimea and to react firmly to what is happening in the black sea basin. unfortunately, violations of the ceasefire in ukraine are becoming more frequent, and incidents in the black sea are also increasing. this is why it is so important to strengthen nato's presence in the region and why it is increasingly imperative to provide ukraine with defensive weapons and support to improve its defence capabilities.
we have a surplus of words and a deficit of effective action. i want to start with that because i think that this report is critical not only of the situation in the black sea region, but also of us: of the institutions, of the democratic world, of the institutions of the european parliament, of the nato institutions. what worries me is the fact that no one in any major institution foresaw the situation in crimea, foresaw the situation in ukraine. we are divided in this parliament, in this house, we are inconsistent and unfortunately we are late to all that is happening in the area of fighting, in the area of conflicts, including armed conflicts. i also point out the miscalculation of a few years ago, when it comes to the assessment of the situation in syria, the assessment of the revolution in egypt, the assessment of the situation in the black sea area. all these events unfortunately show the weakness of european institutions, the institutions of the democratic world. i call for greater consistency, for dialogue with those countries that can be our partners, for support for ukraine, for support for those countries that count on europe - modern europe, democratic europe. and i'm very keen to point out one more element: if we are dealing with hybrid warfare, we also need a hybrid response, which will involve a number of actions, not just the ones that are most visible at the moment. i am convinced that the criticism of this report can be a source of a good response, but i regret to say that it is simply not there yet.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you say that there was a referendum in crimea and that it was legal, and that there are historical reasons for crimea to return to russia, but there are also historical reasons for crimea to return to turkey. there are also historical reasons for constantinople to return to greece. your honor, if turkish troops had entered athens, what would have been the result of the athens referendum?
the black sea region is of strategic importance to the european union. this is the area that has been the most threatened by military action against our security in recent times. russia's annexation of crimea is the most spectacular example, but it is by no means the only one, nor the latest. the occupation of transnistria, the 2008 russian-georgian war, the occupation of ossetia and abkhazia, and the aggressive stance of the russian navy in the black sea are all images of the last decade. the common denominator of all these problems was and is the policy of the russian federation. therefore, without stopping the imperialist impulses of the kremlin, we will never be able to permanently stabilize the situation in this region. we have many friends and strategic partners on the black sea: turkey, georgia, moldova and ukraine. we can also use nato's military and political potential in this area. by combining the strengths and capabilities of all these entities, through a good strategy of cooperation, we can stop the progressive russian aggression. this reduction is a very good start and i would like to believe that there will be a continuation.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with mr kovatchev on mr paşcu and thank you very much for a really good report. this is a professional report because we have a full diagnosis of the military situation. this is a professionally prepared report, because we have an assessment of the political situation and the historical background. whatever we have been talking about here, historically nothing is missing from this report it is both georgia and the whole region and all kinds of disasters that have happened there. what i would like to stress in this report is the need to look to the future. we need to go back to the npt. it's been stressed and russia has to be a party to these talks. and also what is in our interest, and in the interest of the countries and the people of the black sea basin, namely energy, maritime economy, security and finally the environment. and that's the call we need for a black sea strategy. yes, we do.
i very much appreciate the report we are discussing today. this is really a european awakening to russian imperialism, to putin's imperialism, because it's not about the people of russia, it's about this particular power. this awakening is too late and not as great a challenge as the threat from russian imperialism. but it's good that this awakening has happened. it can be the basis for a good policy, a consistent policy, continuing economic sanctions against russia, a nato presence in that part of the world, explicit assistance to ukraine and other eastern partnership countries. it must also mean that europe stands on its own two feet. the european union countries should be prepared to spend 2% of their gdp on defence policy in order to be a significant part of global security.
madam president! i don't think there's anyone in this room who doubts that what's happening in the black sea basin is of growing importance to the security of the european union as a whole. until the annexation of crimea by russia, there was a military balance in this basin. today, unfortunately, that situation has worsened. so the question is, what can we do? well, i think there are two things that need to be done. firstly, the european union should support the countries that lie in the black sea basin, always remembering that it has two of its members - bulgaria and romania. there is another problem, and i think that despite the current policy of russia, you cannot break off contact with that country. in order to avoid various tragic events, direct military communication with russia should be maintained.
russia is not only fueling aggressive actions on the territory of ukraine. she is an aggressor an aggressor who, through false war propaganda, has convinced europe that russia's aggression in crimea and eastern ukraine is the actions of unspecified separatists. let's be clear: putin's russia is responsible for the aggression against ukraine. i have personally experienced the power of russian propaganda, because it is putin who for five years, through disinformation and false propaganda, has been explaining to the world the causes of the smolensk disaster, in which the polish elite, led by president lech kaczynski, died - one of the few leaders of european countries who, in august 2008, was able to effectively oppose putin's actions against georgia. anyone who uses the word separatist in the context of what happened in crimea is part of putin's rhetoric of false propaganda about the war in ukraine.
in writing. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. the russian federation cynically, through a carefully planned operation involving the military and special services, illegally annexed crimea. in so doing, the permanent member of the unsc has violated the principles of territorial integrity, non-interference in the internal affairs of another state and the prohibition on the use of armed force against another state. the kremlin has violated the budapest memorandum, an important pillar of the nuclear non-proliferation policy. russia is trying to use the international principle of the right of nations to self-determination in a perverse way. none of the recognised objective criteria (ethnicity, human rights violations, best solution to the conflict) were met. before the annexation, crimea was not ethnically homogeneous, and the russian minority did not report any human rights violations by ukraine. after annexation through ethnic cleansing, targeting mainly the indigenous crimean tatar and ukrainian people, russia is seeking to make crimea an ethnically homogeneous militarized zone modeled on the "unsinkable aircraft carrier", as the royal oblast or transnistria are often referred to. russia has a long tradition of seizing territory in this way as recently as a century and a half ago, the northeastern coast of the black sea was inhabited by caucasian peoples. we cannot allow a repeat of the ethnic cleansing of 1944 in crimea. we must also oppose the creeping annexation of abkhazia and south ossetia. russia cannot move the borders on the map as it pleases. crimea remains occupied territory under international law. he has to go back to ukraine. we don't talk about it very often.
mr. chairman, please! the current situation in fifa requires radical change, and parliament therefore calls for appropriate steps to restore confidence in football, a sport whose main motto is the principle of fair play. the integrity of sports organisations is of great importance as sport plays a key role in the global promotion of peace, respect for human rights and solidarity, and brings numerous health and economic benefits to society. football is one of the most popular sports in the world. it is of the utmost importance that we put a firm and unambiguous end to all forms of corruption which undermine the credibility and reputation of the discipline. in this context, the protection of athletes and the prohibition of third-party ownership of players in european sport, the elimination of violence, doping and the fight against match-fixing are key. we therefore call on all national football associations to work towards implementing positive changes in fifa before the end of 2016. we expect the same from sponsors and broadcasters. only by putting pressure can we bring about rapid reforms. we will also closely follow the investigations by the swiss and us judiciaries into fifa's decision to award the world cup to russia and qatar. the sport sector is a large and fast-growing sector of the eu economy, contributing to economic growth and job creation. good governance is a prerequisite for the autonomy of these organisations, which should operate in a transparent, accountable and democratic manner. as the famous footballer didier drogba said, "football generates positive emotions and connects people around the world" and that is why we should follow the principle of zero tolerance for corruption in sport.
in writing. sport is one of the areas of human activity that most connects people. in defending its true essence, which is fairness in the spirit of sports competition, we defend the generally accepted rules of ethics and morality. corruption is a denial of the essence of sport and affects not only the legal and financial area, but also the social one. it undermines the trust of citizens and makes them unwilling witnesses to fraud. the youngest participants of this show, to whom we want to pass on values such as tolerance, teamwork, courage, determination, perseverance in pursuit of a goal, are taught that it is not the person and his work that counts, but profit and winning at any cost. it's not just immoral and dishonest, it's a common crime that's punishable. the idea of sport today, its social value, is more like an entertainment industry or a millionaire's sport than a sport for millionaires. there is therefore no doubt that structural reforms in fifa are necessary. work and action on good governance in the framework of the european union work plan on sport should also be accelerated in cooperation with national associations.
in writing. global media reports have revealed that a former member of the fifa executive committee, who was convicted in 2013 of corruption, money laundering and tax evasion, has cooperated with the us justice system. a dozen fifa officials were subsequently arrested on charges of bribery. another one of them, a former fifa vice president, is wanted on the wanted list. investigators suspect that over a 24-year period, senior fifa officials took approximately $150 million in bribes. for a long time, the media has been reporting on corruption in the world of football. however, they were mostly not addressed by fifa and did not have adequate consequences. it is hardly surprising that international opinion, while not accepting this state of affairs, has at the same time persisted in the belief of a quiet conspiracy of the outside world. this belief was reinforced by the decisions of the fifa authorities blocking the reforms of the national football organisations. and so, for example, in 2008, at the request of the polish minister of sport, the arbitration court of the polish olympic committee appointed a commissioner to the polish football association. the commissioner was supposed to improve the situation in pzpn after further cases of corruption in this organization were revealed. two weeks after this decision, fifa threatened poland with a suspension from international competition if the commissioner was not removed from the pzpn. this example demonstrates that, beyond the prosecutions carried out by law enforcement authorities, unwavering solidarity between states is essential to effectively combat the pathologies in football.
the first european games under the auspices of the european olympic committee will be held in baku, azerbaijan. the olympic charter contains the principles underpinning the international olympic movement, which are based on the understanding of sport as an instrument of harmonious human development with the vision of promoting peace in societies and respect for human dignity. the rules apply both to the sporting competition itself and to the entire organisational aspect of any sporting event. there are concerns that the azerbaijani authorities will try to use the olympic sporting event to boost the international image of their policies without addressing the problems of human rights violations. the detention of activists, journalists, human rights defenders and ngos is a sign of the shrinking space for civil liberties in the public sphere. the azerbaijani authorities forced many activists to suspend their activities and to leave the country. these authorities must stop harassing and intimidating civil society organisations, opposition politicians and independent journalists, and refrain from interfering with and undermining their valuable work in developing democracy in the country. with a sporting event as big as the european games, the eyes of the world will be on azerbaijan. so this is a great opportunity for the government of this country to reform human rights. sport plays an important role in european society. this is an area which can make a significant contribution to improving respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. sport regulates social behaviour and creates a sense of belonging within a community, which in turn leads to the strengthening of democracy. the forthcoming international sports events will be an important and critical choice for the european union. it is important that sport federations in their principle of autonomy take human rights considerations into account when choosing the host of major sporting events. the games should be held in the spirit of sport, but also in the spirit of democracy and all values.
the vice-president of this parliament, mr. czarnecki, should be speaking at this time, but unfortunately he's in the hospital, so i'll let you take his place. the european games, which begin in azerbaijan in two days, is an opportunity that all sides in the dispute over the event can and should seize. sport should unite, not divide, and we have seen time and again how this simple principle can help to resolve the most serious conflicts. of course, we cannot ignore the problems, but we must remember that azerbaijani democracy is young and needs time to mature. let us observe, advise, share our experiences, but let us not condemn or deprive anyone of the opportunity to experience the thrill of sports because of the political differences that exist. for the european union, azerbaijan is an important partner in times of turmoil, thanks in part to the eastern partnership. we have discussed today the report on the situation in the black sea basin. it shows that we need friends in this region to defend our common security. without azerbaijan, this will not work. i wish all the participants, the fans, that the european games in baku will bring a lot of sports emotions and allow azerbaijan to open up to the best that europe has to offer: democracy and human rights.
we must accept many of the critical views expressed today, and they are right, but above all they are very, very late. it's just that this party is happening. in condemning all sorts of things, we should not address these words so often to azerbaijan, but to the european olympic committee, because it is the european olympic committee that has decided, and we have just heard the majority of the votes. there were financial considerations involved, of course. i think it's a sports event. but let us not condemn the celebrations, let us not politicize the sport, let us not take away the satisfaction of the athletes: let them be convinced that the medal won there has its value. but it is an opportunity for contact, an opportunity to point out to azerbaijan all kinds of irregularities in the way the state is run. but bypassing and ignoring azerbaijan, we only make the dictator stronger.
madam president! syrian palmyra is controlled by islamic state fighters. he is concerned about the fate of the country, which is home to unesco world heritage sites. it is imperative to immediately stop the destruction of syrian and iraqi cultural heritage, including religious sites. we cannot tolerate acts of terror such as those committed by is/daesh, which is why i call for the protection of the cultural heritage of syria and iraq by protecting cultural, religious sites in accordance with international humanitarian law. i condemn the systematic and widespread violations of human rights by the regime of bashar al-assad, the terrorists belonging to isis and other jihadist groups operating in syria. i also condemn the sentences against civil rights activists, human rights defenders, bloggers and journalists. the syrian government should respect freedom of expression and the rights of human rights defenders. i call on the syrian authorities to immediately and unconditionally release mazen darwish and all those detained or sentenced for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression.
in writing.– the conflict in syria has led to a great humanitarian crisis. it is our moral duty to stand for the values we, the european union, represent and believe in. the war crimes such as mass killings and wreckage of cultural heritage, i consider to be grave acts of inhumanity. a society which destroys its own people, history and culture is bound to moral downfall. the 2 000 years old palmyra heritage site is being crudely used by a large terrorist group as a war tool to spread terror and hatred. furthermore, deliberate targeting of mr mazen darwish and other freedom of expression activists in syria proves a deepening deterioration of human rights and stability. we must also take into consideration the worrisome information about transnational financial resources of is/da'esh and their 200 000 fighters, including eu citizens. it is high time we stopped undervaluing the nature of this conflict and undertook more vigorous steps. in that matter i gladly welcome all diplomatic forms of influence to pressure the syrian authorities for an activist’s immediate release and the protection of palmyra and i support the continuous international collective efforts to stop is/da'esh’s crimes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: three weeks ago, supporters of a gay amendment to the irish constitution attacked a pro-family demonstration, and in the process, 10-year-old muireann declár was nearly killed. why am i bringing this up right now in this debate? because this little girl was ten years old, and this is the only opportunity to talk about it, because i don't think any of us are under the illusion that we're going to have a debate in this room about what the irish referendum was like. there was a proposal, but parliament did not take it up. now, back to paraguay, if this degenerate who is the perpetrator of this drama we are talking about were sentenced to death, he would have dozens, probably hundreds of defenders in our courtroom. the humanity of a child waiting to be born is something that no one will remember, which is why i had to say it.
on behalf of the ppe group. dramatic photos from nepal went around the world a few weeks ago, sometimes still found somewhere, but interest is waning. many of us have been to nepal, many of us have been to nepal, not just because of the extraordinary beauty of the country, but because of the extraordinary charm of these wonderful people, their spirituality, their calm, their kindness, their beauty. their drama is not over, and we must remember that. many of them, most of them live on very steep slopes, and we as tourists, who still need some amenities, we have to cut down even more trees because we want hot water, because we want a shower. will we show solidarity today, we who love nepal? we often use the word "solidarity". if we want to do something concrete, let's not let the calls for help go unanswered. we must help the nepalese people materially, concretely, at european level, at national level and at personal level. and the last sentence ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. nine thousand people dead, half a million homes destroyed, three million refugees -- that's the scale of this terrible tragedy. the international community responded immediately, sending 76 rescue teams, 70 medical teams, nearly 4,000 trained professionals from 36 countries. the european union itself, in the first days of the tragedy, gave 40 million euros. but we are not discussing humanitarian aid here, but the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. despite the extreme situation, the nepalese authorities are collecting a special tax on money and gifts from all over the world at the border. moreover, these funds do not always reach all those in need women, dalits are particularly disadvantaged in this situation. we must remember that there is no room for selective treatment or discrimination and that the european union should take all the necessary measures to combat such phenomena.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea, because it condemns the annexation of crimea, which violated the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, breaking the fundamental principles of the international order. the mediterranean is a strategic region for the european union, and security in the region is therefore of key importance for europe as a whole. the european union must be united and solidary in its response to russia's expansionist policy. i support the report's recommendation that all military cooperation with russia be frozen, including the mistral deal. in return, military cooperation with the eastern partnership countries of ukraine, moldova and georgia should be allowed. i am also convinced that nato's role is crucial for security in this region. at the same time, in the face of the changing geopolitical situation in europe, it is necessary for member states, like poland, to increase their defence budgets. the european union must also combat russian propaganda by supporting projects that counter the fabricated information disseminated by the pro-putin media.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted today describes the current situation in the black sea region very precisely, by the standards of this institution. russia is an aggressor that not only violates international obligations by violating the territorial integrity of ukraine through its annexation of crimea, but also changes the military balance in the region in a way that is extremely detrimental to the security of the european union. it is sad that it took seven years to see the consequences of russia's disregard for georgia's aggression and how much the lack of a strong european response at the time affected vladimir putin's further actions. but we cannot wait any longer and we must take effective joint action. nato's role here is huge, and it's good that we're starting to see that. without cooperation with turkey, it will also be impossible to stop russian expansion. i fully support the call to maintain and strengthen the sanctions regime against russia and to consider providing ukraine with defensive weapons. security should be a common concern, and at the moment the main military threat to europe is russia. we don't want war, but we can't stand by and watch violations of international law in our immediate neighborhood. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. vladimir putin's russia has for years sought to maintain its influence in eastern europe in many areas, from politics to economics. russia's actions in this area have been aggressive on several occasions. the eu has also imposed sanctions on the country's oil and gas industry. i consider it absolutely necessary and right that the council should extend economic sanctions against russia for its armed aggression in eastern ukraine. financial and visa sanctions should also be extended and tightened, as recent reports clearly indicate that russia's actions are determined to further escalate tensions on the territory of ukraine. the annexation of crimea and the outbreak of war in ukraine, the demonstration of russian military forces, including at the border with poland the eu's external border, and then vladimir putin's attempt to convince europe that russia was not involved in these events, challenged the existing european peace order. in the context of the forthcoming council meeting, i expect the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to undertake a detailed review of the european security strategy. the war in ukraine is not just a threat to the countries of central and eastern europe, but to the whole of the european union. the new security strategy should therefore be based on solidarity and consistency between member states.
in writing. in the context of the forthcoming council meeting, i would like to address two issues: the fight against terrorism and migration. recent events, including the terrorist attacks in france and denmark and the migration crisis in the mediterranean, have raised concerns and anxieties among eu citizens about the effectiveness of policies and the functioning of the european union. such social and economic uncertainty makes it difficult for us to concentrate on finding solutions to contemporary challenges and problems together. this is a huge mistake, because only by acting together, in a spirit of loyalty, can we ensure the security of the citizens of the union and the respect of their rights. i therefore hope that you will be able to reach a compromise on a common asylum and migration policy at the council meeting. i also hope that, following the common migration system, we will focus on a common system for the integration of migrants. in the context of the fight against terrorism and the joint declaration of the ministers of education on the strengthening of civil society and respect for fundamental values in national education systems, adopted in paris on 17 march, i ask that the priorities of this declaration be reflected in the eu's counter-terrorism strategy.
in writing.– as over 100 000 migrants came to europe this year, and 2 000 are missing or dead in the mediterranean, there can be no question but that this is a most pressing problem. it will always be necessary to provide asylum for people who are persecuted. immigrants and refugees must be treated on the basis of respect for human rights, and we can no longer rely on temporary measures to alleviate this problem. we must stand in solidarity as a union to find a comprehensive, viable solution to this crisis. solidarity is a responsibility in this union, but nonetheless we have a responsibility to our own citizens as well. migrants seek asylum in europe not only from the other side of the mediterranean, but also from other conflict zones. an agreement must be reached that allows for all member states to ensure that migrant workers and asylum seekers can be integrated into society, but on a voluntary basis. to respect the diversity of the situation for member states across the union, mandatory quotas should not be implemented. however, i am confident that a solution can be reached that will ensure the continued security and stability of member states as well as the health of all those seeking aid.
in writing. more dynamism, efficiency and consistency are needed. the slight optimism before the council meeting on 25 and 26 june is becoming a fact. it welcomes both the emphasis on the importance of better information flows and the stronger focus on the issue in the tripartite talks on the transfer of air passenger data. it is important that this system is compatible, non-dispersive and at the same time protects passenger data from unwanted interference. it would just be airtight, well-protected. the rather superficial and imprecise approach to the issue of a common eu army is still somewhat worrying, but as i understand it, it is still far from being decided. i'll add on the side that i don't trust the assurances that this is a real project. today, it is much more necessary to enrich the tools of persuasion, defense, security than to strengthen the often quite outdated tools of one kind. if we're dealing with hybrid conflicts and similar armed conflicts, let's build more sophisticated response tools.
danuta jazłowiecka, draftswoman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! after the necessary period of austerity and restoration of public finances, it is time to invest in the european economy and create new jobs. in this context, the creation of a european fund for strategic investments and the creation of a business-friendly environment deserve strong support. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i assessed the european commission's draft together with the shadow rapporteurs in terms of its impact on job creation in europe. i am very pleased that the final regulation clearly states that one of the main objectives of the fund is to promote employment and to invest in sectors with a high potential for job creation. the fund will also support social investment in the broad sense, i.e. education, research and development, human resources training. a very important entry in the final version of the regulation is the evaluation of the social impact of the fund and its impact on job creation, carried out as part of the reporting to the european union institutions and the review procedure. i am convinced that this will allow us to make more informed and responsible decisions in the future. it is estimated that the support from the fund will generate 1 300 000 jobs. i hope that european companies are ready to take up the challenge and that we will soon feel the positive effects of the investment recovery in europe.
culture, but also the field of education, is not the best area to look for funding for new projects. it is also not a good area to look for any savings, because it is the source of pride and success for all of europe. but if that is the case, then, in the opinion of the committee on culture and education, which i represent, everything must be done to ensure that these savings are kept to a minimum. secondly, we must really make it possible for both the cultural and the educational sectors to participate in this project, in short. i would like to stress on behalf of the committee that we supported juncker's project, we supported the creation of a fund to help improve the economic situation in europe, but the most important thing is that both culture and education should also have a chance to be part of this project.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs.– mr president, i would now like to see the efsi moving at the highest possible speed from legal framework to reality. it is a long-term mechanism and it can reduce the investment gap – but the efsi is not only about investment funding. the creation of an investment climate will also depend on whether the commission acts promptly to eliminate barriers existing in the single market and in financial sector relations, and on whether establishing a capital market union will quickly address inefficiencies in capital markets. bringing private investment in will not be achieved overnight, but getting it done is still, to a large extent, in the hands of the european institutions.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your time. in taking part in the debate on the european fund for strategic investments, i would like to express my hope that it will be a real, not a paper instrument to reduce the investment gap created in the union by the economic crisis that began in 2008. the creation of a eur 21 billion guarantee fund is expected to generate eur 315 billion of investment over the next three years, mainly from the private sector. this means that projects financed by the fund are expected to have an average leverage of 15 times. it's a very high-hanging bar. in this situation, the weakness of the fund may be that most of the investment projects notified so far concern infrastructure or energy, and these have long rates of return. finally, i would like to express the hope that the investment committee will take into account the investment lag of the central and eastern european countries when deciding which investments will benefit from the fund's guarantee, and that projects in this part of europe will nevertheless receive additional support.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to emphasize that we are now facing a new chapter, a new stage in the functioning of the european union, because an attempt has been made to create an instrument which is intended to fundamentally change investment activities. the way this fund is set up is important. if it is accompanied by the argument that it is a response to the fact that other policies are not working well, it will be a very bad sign for the functioning of the union. the point is to show that there are other policies in other sectors and this fund is supposed to work in a completely different area. it will therefore be extremely important to clarify the relationship between the structural funds and the esi fund. this is not yet fully understood, and i therefore stress the urgent need for complementarity in this area. i'll just say this in closing, we're dealing with a rather risky experiment. i am sure that the commissioner will be able to give us a very good example of how to work quickly, but it will be a serious challenge, because it was really, as the commissioner said, a matter of meeting the deadline and working in a very short time. the question is, can we do this in the future?
mr. chairman, please! the parliament's response to the commission's report on the application of the current economic governance framework and to the commission's communication on the flexibility of the governance framework is not in line with the position of the polish delegation to law and justice and the ecr group as a whole. while we agree with some of the general statements, such as the need to emphasise the need to create jobs, especially for young people, and to improve access to finance, especially for smes, we cannot support greater fiscal, economic or political integration in the european union. i think that the efforts to deepen economic and monetary union are simply not justified, especially in the context of the current situation in greece. in my view, some of the provisions go far beyond the rational rules of economic functioning, such as the provision for greater resilience in countries with high-quality jobs and better social protection. for these reasons, the polish delegation cannot support either the majority of the minutes or the entire report.
mr president, there seems to be a broad consensus on the need to strengthen the emu’s democratic legitimacy. this democratic legitimacy could get a boost from the accountability coming from better—orchestrated cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments. however, this need for accountability comes also from the fact that several intergovernmental arrangements were created during the crisis, and there is a commitment to incorporating them into the legal framework of the european union, to which elmar brok alluded. we will have to look beyond what is in the berès report, and the five presidents’ report reminds us, in particular, that the fiscal compact will have to be incorporated into union law, and that a treaty change will be required for some of the provisions. it seems to be the case, with regard to the member states’ obligations, that they provide for a balanced budget golden rule of a binding and permanent character. this is also the case for reverse qualified majority voting and the excessive deficit procedure, and for formalising the euro summits. i believe that this type of accountability cannot come through the back door in treaty-stretching exercises.
i'm closing the debate. the vote is today, in half an hour. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the question to the council and the commission. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! first of all, thank you for inviting me to speak on this important issue of transparency in the application of the stability and growth pact. the stability and growth pact is central to the work of the european union. it constitutes a rules-based framework that contributes to sound budgetary policies and the sustainability of public finances across the european union. these provisions leave the european commission and the council with a sufficiently wide margin of manoeuvre in assessing the budgets of the member states and allow them to take account of the specific circumstances of each country, so that reliable, independent and reliable assessments of the economic situation play an essential role in the functioning of the system. these important aspects are also mentioned in the report on economic governance by mrs berès, which we have just discussed. in this context, i would like to highlight the substantial improvements introduced in economic policy coordination in recent years. i think it is safe to say that the new institutional structure laid down in the pact strengthens the commission's role and right of initiative. the new rules also increase the accountability of member states and the transparency of the process. all the documents relating to the process are publicly available on the european commission's website, and the new approach also allows for a more robust and broader assessment of the different economic factors involved in the member states and the european union as a whole. the council bases its discussions on an independent analysis of the economic situation prepared by the european commission, as presented, for example, in the staff working papers and forecasts. we also use information provided to the council by the member states concerned, in particular on new or additional discretionary policy measures, where they implement such measures. the member states' positions are then discussed and finally agreed with the aim of achieving the desired result, a stable and sustainable fiscal position. the same approach was also used in assessing the situation and deciding on the excessive application of the budgetary procedure to france. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! the three priorities of this year's economic policy coordination cycle, or european semester, are to: first, boost investment; second, implement structural reforms; and third, develop a responsible fiscal policy. in other words, while fiscal responsibility is of immense importance, it is only one of the necessary elements. the importance of structural reforms and investment alongside a responsible fiscal policy is also underlined in the commission communication on the application of the principle of flexibility in the stability and growth pact. the council has exchanged views on this communication and found a consensus that the flexibilities provided for in the existing rules should be used. the council continues to work towards a common understanding of the application of the principle of flexibility. finally, i would like to say a few words about the importance of the stability and growth pact in the wider context, and its role in the development of european economic and monetary union. on 24 october 2014, the european summit gave the task of preparing the next steps for better economic governance of the euro area, and on 22 june 2014 the five presidents' report on the completion of european economic and monetary union was published. it proposes a gradual approach to strengthening european economic and monetary union in the short term and to perfecting the structure of european economic and monetary union in the long term. the european council of tomorrow is scheduled to hold a first exchange of views on the report of the five presidents, and the council stands ready to work constructively on the issues outlined in the report in all appropriate formats. as i mentioned in the debate on the preparations for the european council today, it is essential to make every effort to promote convergence, as the current divergence between euro area member states could jeopardise the future of the union as a whole. we are ready to work constructively to implement the proposals contained in the report, and the council of europe's guidelines will play a key role in this process. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! i really believe that we will be able to achieve a common vision for the future of european economic and monetary union and we will be able to implement it. thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, the commission shares parliament’s concern about transparency and the implementation of budgetary surveillance and agrees on the need for scrutiny on the part of the main stakeholders and of the public in general. certainly things can be improved upon. but let me start by illustrating what is already in place. i will start by talking about transparency and then move to the scrutiny part. as you know, the work of budgetary surveillance by the commission is based on its economic and fiscal forecasts. the commission provides and publishes regular country-specific aa, ea and eu-level analysis of the economic perspectives. in addition the commission produces, once a year, country reports that contain a comprehensive analysis of the economic situation, including in-depth reviews under the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, where relevant, and an assessment of the main challenges. concerning, in particular, fiscal surveillance, the assessments of the commission are accompanied by detailed technical analysis prepared by the services, which are also made public. all the relevant results and documents are publicly available on the commission’s website. thus, all the elements needed to perform the commission’s analysis and calculations are publicly available. we can certainly further improve and facilitate access to this amount of information, and i thank you for having brought the issue to our attention. in this connection i am glad to announce that we are planning a new version of a public commission staff document on the rules of the stability and growth package, the so-called vademecum. in this document we will clarify even more the methodology that we use to assess whether the member states, under the excessive deficit procedure, have taken the action required by the council.this is the technical component of the analysis, which has then to be validated by the college. at the moment, all results and methodologies, including detailed information, top-down and bottom-up approaches, can be found in the relevant documents available on the commission’s website. but we are aware of the need for further clarification and we will act decisively in this sense. when we are looking at commission decision-making, the judgements and decisions taken by the college are certainly political, but they are based on independent analysis of the relevant facts and the applicable rules. in this respect the commission cannot change the 3% deficit rule and the 60% debt rule of the stability and growth pact, which are enshrined in the treaty, of which the commission remains the guardian. the commission document on flexibility is just an interpretative communication which provides additional guidance for the implementation of the stability and growth pact, without ordering the rules themselves. indeed, due to the complexity of the facts to be determined and of the economic analysis to be performed, the sgp provisions leave a substantial margin of appreciation to the commission and to the council. with the aim of providing transparency and predictability, it is therefore in the commission’s remit to provide further interpretation of the stability and growth pact provisions without changing or replacing them. rules for sound public finances, of which the stability and growth pact is an expression, are necessary for the existence of the monetary union and, more in general, for sustainable growth. they are even more important now that growth is coming back and we need to avoid repeating past errors. the commission improved the surveillance cycle by presenting the economic analysis in country reports three months earlier than in the past. the commission is also currently engaging in a dialogue with the european parliament and the council in the context of the so-called two- and six-pack review, and five presidents, including the european parliament president, are discussing the future of emu, including its governance mechanism. honourable members, as a conclusion, the commission is committed to improving the surveillance framework. our desire is to take this way all together.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, the stability and growth pact is an important instrument for ensuring fiscal discipline in the member states. however, this whole discussion this evening demonstrates that neither members of this house, nor the member states in particular, are very happy with its application. i am very happy to hear commissioner katainen promise to improve the transparency and efficiency of the stability and growth pact. one way, or one avenue, to improve the situation would perhaps be to consider adding to the existing main measure of fiscal discipline – which is, of course, the deficit – some other measures, such as for instance debt-to-gdp ratio. the deficit measure, be it in the form of a headline deficit or a structural deficit, suffers from important weaknesses. one of them is that the deficit gives us a short-term picture of the budgetary situation and actually is not a good measure of long-term sustainability in terms of fiscal policy. the other thing is that the deficit is very much dependent on cyclical factors, ad hoc measures and also discretionary policy measures taken by individual governments. the structural deficit is mostly a variable which is not directly observable and is also dependent on the potential output, which is again a concept that is difficult to measure and difficult to present in a convincing way. so maybe one possibility of improving the situation would be simply to shift to the debt-to-gdp ratio. this would give you at least a long-term measure of fiscal sustainability.
in writing. the stability and growth pact is an important instrument for ensuring fiscal discipline in the member states. in 2011, thanks to the hard work of the european parliament and the european commission, the pact was significantly deepened. the commission took on a particularly heavy responsibility then and now is the time to remind it of that. the commission must play the role of independent budgetary controller if our economic and monetary union is to be credible in the future. ensuring the stability and sustainability of the european economic system is necessary and urgent to get back on the path of growth and jobs. the rules of the stability pact should apply equally in all countries. the independent economic assessment must be transparent and effective, and i welcome the assurances given by commissioner katainen. we need to ensure that budgetary policies are responsible and that our financial markets converge. it is also important to strengthen political legitimacy, which is why parliament should be more involved. what methods does the european commission use to carry out analyses of the economic framework? what methodology does the commission intend to use to assess the budgetary position of a member state and its structural budget surplus and to estimate potential gdp growth? these are questions that the european commission should answer first.
madam president! the document presented by the commission rightly states that many member state governments, in order to compensate for the losses caused by the tax avoidance of large multinational companies, increase the tax burden on less mobile, mostly local, companies and tax labour. as a consequence, small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens bear a disproportionate share of the costs of the state and public services, while large enterprises transfer profits abroad. this is especially true for peripheral countries, which have been growing for the last 25 years mainly through outward capital inflows and foreign direct investment, and luxleaks didn't need to know about it. i'm surprised it's only just been discovered. but i do not think that the standardisation of the corporate tax base is the right way to combat this phenomenon.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the action plan presented by the european commission is very ambitious, but also very necessary. whether it is implemented will be up to the member states and their attitude will determine the creation of a fairer system of corporate taxation in the union. the main problem in the current situation is, among other things, the lack of a level playing field for economic operators. if multinational corporations pay on average 30% less tax than domestic firms, it is difficult to expect the latter to win the competition. the action plan presented can therefore be seen as an instrument for rebalancing the single market. a number of initiatives to combat tax avoidance, ensure stable incomes and strengthen the single market for businesses deserve support. together, these measures are intended to make a significant improvement in the corporate tax environment in the european union, making it fairer, more efficient and more conducive to economic growth. i am convinced that if we succeed in reducing the grey area to some extent and improve tax enforcement in the member states' budgets, and thus in the european union's, then we will have significant resources to make the necessary investments, for example in the labour markets. one of the most difficult tasks facing the european parliament and the council will be to work on the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base. the previous attempt to adopt this instrument was not a complete success, due to a number of reservations from member states. if agreement is to be reached on this issue, the european commission will have to take account of the concerns raised by the member states, but also by parliament, and work out a compromise that satisfies all. the proposal to create a common tax base for companies without the need for consolidation seems to be a step in the right direction. there is no doubt that after a period of austerity and austerity, it is time to support economic operators. we should do everything we can to create a business-friendly environment for our domestic companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest in the european economy.
ladies and gentlemen! the current rules on corporate taxation in the european union are not adapted to the requirements of a modern economy. some companies take advantage of the fact that countries differ in their tax avoidance practices. this results in significant revenue losses for member states, higher tax burdens and distortions of competition in the markets. the action plan we are discussing today sets out the way forward for more effective tax enforcement in the union. according to this concept, companies should pay their fair share of taxes in the country where they generate profits. and that is the desired, the right direction of change. the action plan envisages increasing tax transparency both within the european union and vis-à-vis third countries. it is necessary to strengthen the common system of protection against external threats to the revenue of the member states. this will also be the right direction in tax policy, which we should develop and support with effective tools. that is the kind of action we should be calling for today.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). all initiatives to boost growth and create jobs deserve our support. moreover, the efsi is to focus on projects of high societal relevance, including education, training, research and innovation projects. it is therefore all the more necessary to support its effective implementation and to ensure its proper management and financing. we also need to take into account the appropriate time horizon for investment in the different sectors and to align the monitoring and assessment of individual projects and their impact on growth and employment. at the same time, we must remember that the efsi is not a substitute for national action. for example, in terms of educational goals, we cannot cut national spending on research or science and hope that the investment plan will fill that gap. only combined action and increased co-financing will achieve the critical mass needed to stimulate further growth. therefore, inter alia, the efsi funding should also be independent from the budget of the 'horizon 2020' programme. the two programmes must be complementary in substance and mutually reinforcing, and their funding must be independent. finally, i would like to stress the importance of supporting educational projects under the efsi. quality education and the development of skills and competences are the foundations for growth, employment, competitiveness and innovation in the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the amendments by parliament to the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). as a crucial element in the european union’s growth strategy, employment remains a priority for the european union. the efsi offers an invaluable resource for many small and mid-size companies, including start-ups and spinoffs, which struggle to attract investment. the higher risk portfolio of the efsi will encourage small-business owners and rising entrepreneurs to once again trust in europe. the criteria stipulated for the selection of projects will ensure that our goals for smart, sustainable growth in europe happen, by encouraging projects focused on social, economic, and territorial cohesion and job creation. i congratulate the committees on the budget and on economic and monetary affairs for their work in amending the proposal by the commission. i look forward to the implementation of the efsi through our continued cooperation with the commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft regulation establishing the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as it could help to boost economic growth and reduce unemployment in the european union. the additional measures for investment in transport and strategic infrastructure (digital and energy technologies), research and innovation centres and investment to stimulate employment (especially for young people) will not only improve macro indicators but also benefit the situation of individual regions in the union. this also applies to the kujawsko-pomorskie region in poland, which is far from the average living standard in the eu. over the next three years, the efsi is expected to mobilise at least eur 315 billion in investments, with smes as the main beneficiaries. they play a key role in the economy, especially in terms of job creation. given the scale of the funds to be spent under the fund, i believe that special attention should be paid to preventing fraud and irregularities that may occur in the process of their distribution. to this end, it is necessary not only to establish closer and more effective cooperation between olaf and the european investment bank, but also to intensify the ongoing work in the council on the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office and the reform of eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european fund for strategic investments is a project worth giving a chance to realise. the dramatic decline in investment in the european union in recent years is a problem for all member states. unlocking the investment potential of the private sector and effective cooperation between private companies and public institutions could be the key to restoring many jobs in the european union that have disappeared as a result of the economic crisis. the european parliament cannot, of course, renounce its control tasks in the case of the efsi and should closely monitor all the ec's activities in this area. we cannot allow the creation of the efsi to have a negative impact on other programmes that already support investment in the member states, including in particular the cef and horizon 2020 instruments. investment in the transport sector and the enhancement of the infrastructure potential of the less developed regions of the european union should play a special role in projects adopted for implementation by the efsi. i believe that supporting this project opens up many new possibilities and creates many opportunities, including for poland, which needs to release new funds for industrial reconstruction and huge investment in other areas.
in writing. ‒ this is a useful initiative by the commission to help businesses in difficulty identify and assess their options for eu support. it also protects the labour market in the member states of the european union. the initiative will speed up assistance to people losing their jobs, streamline procedures and improve the rationality and appropriateness of spending, with an emphasis on a more understandable cost-benefit assessment. the commission also notes that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. i therefore support the rapporteur in his assessment of the proposal submitted.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the egf has provided necessary resources to redundant workers since its creation in 2006. though the eu employment rate for people aged 20-64 rose in 2014 by 0.8 pps to 69.2%, it is still well below the target rate of 75% (europe 2020 strategy) by 2020. through increased integration and the creation of a new knowledge base and application interface, the egf will become more transparent and therefore more user-friendly to those who need it. the transfer of funds to the commission for technical support will allow the egf to further its mission to re-integrate those eu citizens who are on the fringes of the labour market. i urge member states to recall their obligations to promote egf projects in order to extend the reach and visibility of the egf. i look forward to the integration of the egf into the system for fund management.
mr president, taking into account how limited the current role of capital markets in financing the real economy is, how fragmented they are and how shallow they are in many growth—hungry member states, there is a chance that, in your effort to build a genuine european capital markets union, you can get it right. you can strike the right balance – right from the beginning – between regulation, self-regulation, good practices and market forces. i hope you will be able to mobilise all those vehicles. we expect proposals that foster the harmonisation of standards, reduce complexity and perhaps identify new asset classes, should we want to invest, for example, in energy infrastructure. there has been a lot of talk about smes and securitisation. there are many methods by which the ability of smes, start-ups and mid-caps to access funding can be improved. you mentioned them. i also understand that you will go beyond securitisation towards venture capital and towards focusing on providing information, and on making information more standardised. i would also encourage you to take a step towards establishing accounting standards for smes.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. it should be noted that recent changes in the regulatory environment have increased the administrative burden on firms, which may have the effect of reducing the benefits of traditional investment activities. i believe that before new regulations are introduced, an impact assessment and a cost analysis should be carried out. in my view, the european approach should only be used where the objectives set cannot be achieved by national means. i support the creation of a capital markets union, but i stress again that in my view it should be based on local capital markets and should focus on facilitating the flow of capital between existing markets rather than on centralising them. i think it's also worth highlighting the need for a standard financial education to increase the confidence of investors, particularly retail and private investors, in the capital markets.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 9 july 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the own-initiative report by sirpa pietikäinen, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the conservation of resources: towards a circular economy (2014/208(ini)) (a8-0215/2015).
mr. chairman, please! the proposal for a sustainable circular economy is perhaps one of the most far-reaching and important projects undertaken by the union. it can, and potentially should, rebuild the entire economy based on the principle of resource efficiency. it can be an opportunity for the union, for all the member states, an opportunity for growth and new jobs. however, we must take into account that the objectives set out in the directive must be chosen realistically, and in particular with regard to the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to thank sirpa petikaïnem for her efforts, who is the rapporteur for this report, the author of it. i have to admit that some of the objectives that have been set here are set in a specific time frame, because we will have a proposal from the european commission in a few months, and it will affect the shape of the european commission's proposal, so i think we are introducing objectives that are going to break down existing regulations, such as the issue of waste incineration; new installations built with national money and eu money, among other things, and they are supposed to have a reduced waste stream. we have to sort this out in some rational way. the requirements of the ecodesign directive are problematic, for example; it is not the ecodesign itself that is difficult, but the requirements that will be imposed on other small and mediumsized enterprises, and we want them to develop as well. i think what is perhaps the most important thing about this whole concept is what mr karl-heinz florenz said: we should appeal to the public's consciousness. if the citizens do not help us, we will not be able to introduce this concept of a circular economy in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i agree that we should consider a circular economy where waste is recycled and reused. this is a great opportunity not only for the environment, but also for the economy. but i think we should set ambitious but achievable goals. i believe, for example, that increasing the recycling rate of municipal waste to 90% by 2030 will be very difficult for many member states to achieve. the current level is 27%. so i would urge caution against over-regulation: over-regulation is choking the economy, and i hope most of us are aware of that. it is also important to raise awareness among citizens and to support countries in this regard. and i ask that we make european law with caution.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 july 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the own-initiative report by mr james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the prospects for the eu dairy industry review of the implementation of the milk package (2014/2146 ((ini)) a8-0187/2015).
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to thank the rapporteur for this report, for dealing with such an extremely important problem. the milk package proposed by the commission and the mechanisms it contains are bureaucracy, not real aid. in many countries of the european union, including my own country, poland, the proposals for producer organisations have not worked. meanwhile, the dairy farmers' situation is deteriorating due to the russian embargo, price volatility and imbalances in the supply chain. we are here today to discuss support for milk producers, and in the meantime the european union has contributed to the degradation of polish producers by imposing too low milk quotas, which has resulted in huge penalties destroying many producers in poland. i call on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal as soon as possible on the following matters: the chairman withdrew the floor.
the situation on the milk market is extremely dynamic. there were regulations, there were quotas, there were crises. now we have an embargo. what do you want me to do? when and how to intervene? early intervention sends the wrong message, the wrong information to the farmers, to the market. too late intervention is costly, it causes losses for farmers and undermines their confidence in the cap. we cannot afford a major crisis, so we must use the old, proven instruments. i don't think it's against the free market. these instruments include increases in the intervention prices for butter and milk powder, storage subsidies for selected types of cheese, export subsidies and perhaps even direct financing for farmers, milk producers, if the situation proves as difficult as it seems. finally, we must act to promote the consumption of milk in our countries. not just to watch and support exports, which is important, but also to support domestic consumption. finally, we need to look at the problems of guarantees, insurance. these are the new financial instruments that will support the market.
i'm not going to let you do this. the dairy sector in my country, poland, is in a clear crisis as a result of the russian embargo and the lifting of the milk production limits. the purchase price of this raw material has already fallen by about 20%, while farmers are at the same time being hit with penalties for exceeding production limits: 150 million euros this year, 50 million euros last year. despite the commission's decision to spread these payments over three years, they will be a serious burden for polish milk producers, representing almost 70% of the current price of a litre of milk in the purchase. i would therefore ask the commissioner to look again at the situation of dairy farms in my country, because poland is the only country in russia's neighbourhood that has not benefited from the milk package, which is only for the baltic states and finland.
madam president! the most stupid system in the world, democracy, is constantly praised in this parliament, but when you saw democracy in action in greece, no one said that it was the fault of democracy, you were just trying to get along with the people. well, ladies and gentlemen, people don't understand why democracy is a bad system, people don't understand why mrs thatcher called the european union "a wicked invention of left-wing intellectuals", but people know that they are badly governed. greece is irrelevant, you'll see brexit, you'll see fraexit, we'll see who's the last to turn off the lights. but i have to say this: i think the european union must be destroyed.
madam president, last monday, on 29 june, president obama signed a trade promotion authority which grants him the power to negotiate international trade agreements and then send them to congress for a simple up or down vote. the goal of this fast-track mandate is to facilitate the legislative process to avoid amendments or delays so that the often long-lasting negotiations are wrapped up within a few months. while the two most important trade agreements of the obama administration seem to be the trans-pacific partnership and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), it is only the first one that is currently in the spotlight in the us and therefore more likely to be finalised soon. hence i call on the commission and the european parliament to seize this opportunity and move substantially forward with ambitious ttip negotiations, benefiting from the broad mandate now in president obama’s hands. this is a great opportunity for europe that must not be wasted.
in writing. the 2007 reform aimed to provide fruit and vegetable producer organisations with the tools to effectively counter potential market crises and to improve quality and competitiveness while respecting the environment. the conditions created encourage producers to associate and cooperate internationally. it is also important that organisations can set up an operational fund from contributions from their members and from eu financial support. a number of indicators show that the policy in respect of the fruit and vegetables sector was justified. however, these effects do not apply to all member states. in less modernised regions, the rate of organisation remains low and producer organisations are small both in terms of the number of producer members and the total value of marketed production. to encourage producers to organise, administrative procedures must be simplified, bureaucratic burdens reduced, organisational support provided and clear control rules introduced. differences in the level of modernisation and bureaucratic burdens are certainly one of the major reasons why the largest producer organisations (around 18% of all producer organisations with a turnover exceeding eur 20 million) receive around 70% of the financial assistance from the supporting measures.
in writing. i am positive about the latvian presidency of the council of the european union. latvia, which is not a large member state of the european union, has provided an active, professional and highly individual service to the presidency of the council. i could clearly see the eastern european theme and the interest in central and eastern european issues. i am particularly pleased with initiatives that emphasise transatlantic cooperation. the tld (transatlantic legislators' dialogue) meeting in riga at the end of the semester was such a strong emphasis. i hope that these emphases will continue during the next presidency as part of the close group cooperation between the italy-latvia-luxembourg troika.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! latvia, taking over the six-month rotating presidency from italy, faced a challenge. since 1 january, a 'competitive, digital, engaged europe' has had to deal with the deepening conflict in ukraine, the financial crisis in greece and the increasing migration of people across the mediterranean. these priority events could have diverted attention from stimulating economic growth in the union countries, but this has not happened. during the six-month presidency, nearly 1500 meetings at different levels were held in brussels and luxembourg and around 200 in latvia, with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the eu economy. strengthening the eu single market, especially the eu digital and telecommunications market, has been successful in achieving a deadline for the official abolition of roaming charges. in the energy policy area, the latvian presidency has started work on the concept of a european energy union. i myself, as the ep's lead rapporteur on the negotiations on the so-called small claims procedure and the trade mark package, assess our cooperation as sound and efficient. it was the first time that a country holding the presidency of the council of the eu had been asked to negotiate on such an important issue with the member states. in my 11 years of observing other presidencies from the perspective of a member of the european parliament, i can confidently say that this one was a success and congratulate you on a job well done.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the latvian presidency for its commitment to the development of a sustainable and inclusive european labour market. i would like to highlight in particular the presidency's commitment to improving the situation of young people and people with disabilities. i congratulate the presidency on the well-prepared high-level meeting and conference on disability held in riga in may. i am convinced that the conclusions of this meeting will have a significant impact on the future implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and thus contribute to improving the situation of this group of eu citizens. i hope that the luxembourg presidency will continue to work with equal commitment to enable people with disabilities to realise their full potential and enjoy their citizenship rights.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. i thank the rapporteur, mr bernd lange, for the very clear and open way in which he conducted the negotiations between the european parliament's committees, between the opinion-makers. this has allowed us to build - i think - a good reputation with all the committees of the parliament. i want to emphasize only three very specific things: we will not win this agreement if energy prices on both sides of the atlantic are so different. we must open up the american market to export liquefied natural gas to europe, because that gives us an opportunity, but at the same time we on the european continent must consider the implications for all energy prices on our continent. these deposits are much higher than on the american continent, which puts us at a disadvantage. the second thing is the difference in co2 emissions on both sides of the atlantic. industries such as steel and chemicals must be protected for a long time. and thirdly, small and mediumsized enterprises and access to public procurement by the us side. we must all work to promote ttip on the european continent our citizens still know too little about it and should not be surprised.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions.– mr president, i believe there are two vital objectives regarding ttip. we have to reach a balanced trade agreement, but we also need to have mutual recognition of product standards or we have to work towards transatlantic standards. the committee on petitions received many petitions regarding ttip. citizens raised a number of concerns that we, as representatives, have to take seriously, most of them related to the quality of food imports, the rights of eu citizens to digital self-determination, transparency, the economic impact, and protection of investors under the isds mechanism. i tried to underline the importance of the public consultations regarding ttip, because this was the most important thing about these petitions, but i also tried to incorporate the accommodations of the ombudsman regarding this dossier in the context of the mobility package and also in the context of establishing visa reciprocity for eu citizens of all member states. i believe this is one of the key elements that is necessary in order to take full advantage of this agreement.
i want a common security and cooperation zone from california to the black sea. this is a zone that my region - central and eastern europe - particularly needs, both militarily and economically, the american presence. i am concerned about many of the details, but i believe that the esds a mechanism known in my region's bilateral transatlantic agreements should be retained in ttip. it increases the cohesion of the european union, and it increases the competitive advantages of central and eastern europe in transatlantic relations. we should, especially after the greek tragedy, look more favourably on transatlantic mechanisms and be a little more humble in assessing the effectiveness of european solutions.
madam president! ttip is a very broad agreement and covers many issues. so i'll narrow my speech down to one or two of them: namely, who is going to be the beneficiary of this agreement? i am surprised to hear some people say that the beneficiaries will be banks, corporations, multinational companies, cross-border companies. i would like to say that in my view the main beneficiaries of this agreement will be small and mediumsized enterprises, which in the individual member states represent 97-98% of all enterprises operating in the european union and employ 60-70% of the workforce. these companies don't have money, they don't have legal staff, they don't have access to international law firms. these companies have difficulty in doing business and therefore in creating new jobs. - for who? for europeans, these are the companies we are working for, slowly negotiating for the same deal. this deal is needed by ordinary people, not just banks, not just the executives of big corporations. you're talking a complete load of crap here that is unacceptable.
madam president! ttip raises, as we know, a lot of social concerns, and they cannot be ignored. it also raises high hopes in business circles, including small and medium-sized enterprises. the negotiators on behalf of the union should not forget, however, that if this agreement is to be concluded, it must benefit the whole union, that is to say all the countries of the union, rich and poor, that the union is a union of economically diverse states. certainly, there will be a need for some protection periods, for example, for the protection of the polish chemical industry. the protection of geographical indications of products is an important issue. it is important to guarantee equal opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, including by abolishing the visa requirement for citizens of certain member states. and it is worth considering how long the esds will be applied to trade between the countries of the union. if these and similar issues are not addressed, the system will only increase the division of europe into a highly industrialized center and a backward labor-supplying periphery.
madam president, in the years to come 90% of world growth and demand will be generated outside the european union. that is why the european union must remain open and needs trade agreements. we all know that today trade is no longer only about tariffs: it is about standards, sustainable development and consumer safety. it requires different, much more complex, agreements. we need agreements that would open new markets, increase investment opportunities, make trade cheaper, easier and faster, set common rules on technical and sanitary standards, make the trade environment predictable, and also provide for a joint commitment in areas that affect trade, such as intellectual property rights, competition, and public procurement rules. ttip’s role is also to launch a progressive elimination of barriers to investment, and that is why we also need protection for our european investors, legal certainty and transparency, and a generally secure investment environment. that is why we need to push forward with the negotiations and conclude them sooner rather than later.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial, on her excellent work, which i myself have been able to follow closely as a member of the committee on budgets. the positive outcome of the vote only confirms the really impressive compromise with the council and the commission. this resulted in draft amending budget no 3/2015 to introduce the surplus of eur 1 435 million from the financial year 2014 into the 2015 budget. during the negotiations on the 2015 budget, the council requested the transfer of payments in draft amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 related to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to the 2015 budget for a total amount of eur 126,7 million. it has been rightly noted that the surplus presented in the current draft amending budget no 3/2015 could easily be used up in the 2014 budget for both drafts of the 2014 amending budgets, covering a total of 7 cases of mobilisation of the eusf. i would also like to draw attention to the council's tendency to renege on its commitments to countries in need which have fulfilled the conditions for the launching of the eusf by mobilising the additional resources provided for in the special instruments. the council did not follow this approach with regard to draft amending budget no 4/2015, which was a good sign for the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for a total of eur 66,5 million in commitments and payments in response to the damage caused by the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. in all three cases, the flooding caused significant damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and private homes. it also caused great damage to agriculture and the environment. in the difficult situation in which these countries find themselves, it is necessary to maintain solidarity at the level of the european union.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilising the european solidarity fund for floods in romania, bulgaria, and italy. the european solidarity fund was created to respond to major natural disasters and to promote unity throughout the union in times of crisis. in mobilising the eusf for these three countries, the damage done to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage can be repaired and the clean-up and recovery for the disaster-stricken areas can be sped up. the eusf is an important took for promoting solidarity amongst the european community, and its aid to disaster-stricken areas since its inception in 2007 until now amounts to nearly € 3.7 billion. nonetheless, the devastation caused by these floods highlights the need for more investment in programs targeted at flood prevention and climate change mitigation measures in the future.
(inaudible) ... all the time about diversity – that our parliament is to defend diversity. but every time there is a vote, we are voting to unify everything. you are not for diversity but for unification. this time it is ‘ein reich, ein volk, ein ticket!’.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this project because by creating a multimodal integrated ticketing system, local transport companies will suffer because they will not be able to afford new investments. on the other hand, large, well-performing enterprises will develop even more dynamically, which may result in the crowding out of smes and the simultaneous hegemony of large corporations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of a multimodal integrated ticketing system in europe. this is a significant step towards introducing a better and more convenient solution for consumers, first at national level and by 2024 also at european level. a new passenger rights charter should also be presented by 2017 with a separate section on multimodal travel, taking into account the specificities of each mode of transport, as well as an integrated ticketing system. in terms of access to information before and during travel, greater attention should be paid to the needs of older persons and persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ an integrated ticketing system will undoubtedly make it easier to move around, which is very much needed in today's globalised world where travel is becoming more common. the ease, convenience and lower price of a single ticket will certainly attract more passengers and contribute to the development of public transport. the ep's decision is a step in the right direction and a positive signal for all travellers, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the idea in the report is, in my view, a good one, because it can not only make life easier for citizens of the eu member states, but also increase the efficiency of public transport. but i think that these solutions should be found in a market process, not in the authoritarian actions of the administration. the point is that these, like any other solution in the economy, have their optimum efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the introduction of an integrated ticketing system in europe. it is an attempt to respond to the growing challenges in european transport policy. we have growing problems with congestion, with increasing traffic jams, and on the other hand with the need to protect the environment and to maintain the profitability of transport. the structure of transport services in europe is deteriorating. increasing numbers of travelers are using airplanes, understandably, but so are cars, which add to traffic congestion and damage the environment. only 8.2% of all travellers in europe are now using buses, compared with 6.5% of all travellers using trains. in this situation, an integrated ticket would increase the chance of using different means of transport. travellers would need to have up-to-date information to choose the fastest or cheapest travel option, book and pay for one ticket online, and then travel independently of the modes of transport. it is a good direction to take, which is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ freedom of movement within the european union is a privilege we are all used to. no borders encourages citizens of member states to travel across the continent for both business and leisure. however, despite many modern technologies and the digitisation of more and more aspects of life, it is still very difficult to move between different countries using different means of transport. different ticketing systems, different forms of payment and a lack of reliable information on travel times or timetables are the biggest obstacles faced by passengers in the eu. the creation of a multimodal integrated ticketing system in the european union will break down these constraints and make it easier to travel door-to-door in europe by booking just one ticket. this will reduce the time spent on administrative procedures related to the purchase of different tickets, speed up the planning and organisation of journeys and encourage more travellers to use rail or water transport for cross-border travel. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu's main task should be to make life easier for its citizens and to remove unnecessary barriers between member states. the creation of a common ticketing system integrating the different modes of transport will be a huge facilitation which will undoubtedly improve the comfort of travel for the citizens of the member states.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i welcomed both the positive outcome of the vote and the pace at which the efsi agreement was reached. the determination of all the institutions to make it possible to implement it as soon as possible was clear. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to mobilise additional private and public funding for investments that pursue objectives with a european dimension. addressing cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, environmental and transport infrastructure will be key. i also welcomed the fact that the additional amount of eur 1 billion compared to the commission's initial proposal will be financed from the combined margin of the multiannual financial framework for commitments and will come from the margins available under the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget. this will limit the shift from the cef and horizon 2020 programmes. it is worth noting that the transfer of a total amount of eur 1 350 million to commitments of eur 790 million from the cef, eur 70 million from the horizon 2020 programme and eur 490 million from the iter project will nevertheless be felt by these programmes. these programmes are essential for creating new jobs and generating economic growth in europe. i hope that the compensation promises in future budgetary procedures will be honoured in a timely and reliable manner.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget aims to increase eu funds to better manage the ever-increasing migration and refugee flows. the increase in payment appropriations was financed by a transfer from the galileo programme (savings due to delays in satellite production), leaving the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget unchanged. the additional funds will be allocated to:• the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif);• the internal security fund (isf);• the agencies:• frontex,• easo,• europol. this is the first step in responding to the new challenges posed by migratory trends such as the crisis in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the crisis in the dairy sector requires decisive action by the commission. the current milk package does not improve the situation of milk producers and the mechanisms it contains are inefficient and too bureaucratic. in many eu countries, including my own, poland, the proposals for producer organisations have not worked. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union industry is facing a significant increase in imports of dairy products from the prc, which is likely to lead to a significant increase in the union consumption of dairy products. i also supported this report because of the clause which drew the commission's attention to the problem of high fines for exceeding milk quotas in the last two quota years. this amendment was promoted by myself and my colleagues from the polish delegation of the ecr. the penalties, which particularly affected polish farmers, are not justified on economic grounds, as the limits throughout the eu have not been exceeded.
in writing. ‒ the end of the milk quota system is a major blow to the european dairy sector, which has long been facing difficulties due to the russian embargo. the average price of milk received by producers has fallen by more than 16% over the last year, and the same is true for dairy products, including skimmed milk powder, which has fallen by around 35%. in addition, supplies are continuing to increase, and dairies are struggling to find a large enough market for their products. if we add to this the penalties that member states will have to pay for exceeding the amounts (in some countries this will be hundreds of millions of euros), the crisis in the sector becomes extremely serious. the european commission's efforts to improve the situation on the eu milk market are still not enough. it is essential to put in place mechanisms to mitigate the severe impact of the russian embargo and the end of the quota system. the increase in intervention prices seems necessary in order to enable farmers to obtain compensation at least equal to their production costs. on the other hand, the spread of over-payment penalties over time will mitigate the financial consequences. i also call for the funds from these levies to be returned to the dairy sector, which is in a really difficult situation.
in writing. ‒ a public-private partnership, abbreviated as ppp, is a broadly defined cooperation between public and private sector entities to exploit common opportunities for the provision of public services. the public partner provides the services, while the private partner is responsible for the economic activity and the making of profits. therefore, ppp is not a form of privatisation but a substitute for it. the combination of public services with private capital often results in cost reductions and efficiency gains, as well as in the quality of the services provided. public-private partnerships are very important as they contribute to growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation. they also affect the development and modernisation of infrastructure. this is a huge opportunity for smes to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the public sector. i believe that an innovative solution such as ppp is beneficial for both sectors, for the member states and for the eu as a whole, because it combines the most important advantages of both sectors without the need for a privatisation process.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform because i believe that the commission should take action to improve the functioning and attractiveness of producer organisations. the level of these organisations in the european union is undoubtedly varied, and in the new member states, including my country, poland, they are fewer and weaker than in the old union countries. i think that these organisations should focus on introducing solutions to increase competitiveness and adapt to consumer needs rather than stockpiling. in the light of the crisis caused by the russian embargo, which has caused the greatest losses to fruit and vegetable producers, it is necessary to simplify the union rules on aid to this sector and to improve the crisis prevention and management instruments linked to the programme. the measures taken by the commission so far have not covered the real losses of producers and therefore new instruments are necessary. i supported this report because it calls on the commission to re-examine the financing rules in the field of crisis prevention and market management.
in writing. ‒ in the fruit and vegetables sector, we have seen a strengthening of producer organisations in recent years, which enable farmers to obtain better prices for their products, to make effective use of eu support and to protect their own interests. this is particularly relevant today, when turbulence in the sector is often caused by factors beyond the farmer's control, such as the 2011 e. coli outbreak or the current russian embargo. in addition, we are increasingly hearing about unfair business practices by large retailers. therefore, initiatives to support the creation of producer organisations should be strengthened, projects to improve the professional qualifications of their workers should be co-financed and mechanisms should be introduced to ensure fair competition in the sector. i would also like to draw attention to another important point, namely the use of instruments to prevent crisis situations. as the rapporteur confirms, these tools have been used to a very limited extent so far. meanwhile, the fruit and vegetable sector is often faced with sudden problems requiring immediate intervention. extraordinary support mechanisms must therefore be available to ensure the stabilisation of the sector and to allow for the rapid compensation of losses suffered by farmers.
in writing. ‒ we adopted the report 'the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform', which analysed the 2007 reform of the eu fruit and vegetable market, which introduced significant marketing and provided for a support scheme for producer groups and organisations to strengthen the position of fruit and vegetable producers. the report by mrs melo points to major shortcomings in this area and suggests solutions for the future, perhaps the most important of which is to ensure that producers have a greater share in the processing of their products, i.e. that they benefit more from the added value that is created in the field-to-table chain. fruits and vegetables are an important part of every diet, yet their consumption is still too low in europe. the production of fruit and vegetables is largely carried out on smaller farms and requires a high labour input, which provides employment for many people. fruit and vegetables are a particularly significant export item for both the union and poland. in the context of this sector, the situation regarding the russian embargo, which has additionally been recently extended for another year, is particularly important. in this context, we have, together with other members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, written to the commissioner for agriculture, phil hogan, in recent days, calling for the extension of the support mechanisms for producers affected by the embargo.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it took a lot of time and a lot of effort to get to today's debate, but i think it was worth it, because the finale seems to be extremely promising and interesting. this debate is incredibly important not just because of the content of the document we're working on. we have to ask ourselves some key questions, really very important questions in the context of the regulations that we have before us, which are company law, all the other laws that will govern the operation of companies and businesses operating in the european union, regardless of their size. the key question is: when will people, when will the citizens of the european union be satisfied, happy? when they have a job, a good job, well-paid. the second question is: how are we going to treat entrepreneurs in the european union, whether as those who are just going to cheat and not pay taxes all the time, as those who are going to oppress workers and give them the lowest possible pay, or maybe we'll look at it a little bit differently and actually deal with it, instead of looking for loopholes, creating legal forms in the european union that will not hinder, but will allow economic development, that will create this mythical economic growth that we are fighting for, boasting of the free market on which we operate in the european union. the free market is another key word in this context, because, ladies and gentlemen, who creates jobs? the governments of the member states, the european commission, the european parliament? no, jobs in the european union and elsewhere are created by companies, entrepreneurs, these active people. i would remind you that over 90% of companies operating in the european union are small and medium-sized enterprises. what do we suspect them of? that they're bullies? let's start thinking logically and refer to this free market, and also refer to the other issues related to it, namely the executive compensation, which is part of the free market. i believe that shareholders should have the right, not the obligation, to decide what remuneration system they choose, a system that is appropriately tailored to the company's operating profile and the objectives that the company has set for itself. i am therefore very pleased and very grateful to our rapporteur and to my colleagues in the committee that after a long and hard debate we have come to the conclusion that this is the right direction to take. and today we have on the table a document with which we can move on to the next stage: the negotiations with the council, negotiations which will of course not be easy, because we still have some differences. but i'm convinced that if we can set the right goals for where we want to go, if we can take a pro-rather than a con-approach, we can achieve the success that everyone is so eager to see.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i don't agree with the argument that we have to dogmatically pursue high carbon taxes and renewable energy rates at all costs, because there are countries that are coal-based. but if you think so, i'd like to ask you, what compensation are you going to give to those economies that are traditionally based on coal? what kind of solidarity can we expect in the face of such a policy?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i strongly oppose the agreement to establish a market stability reserve. firstly, the reserve was adopted on the wrong legal basis and its adoption could have a significant impact on the energy basket in countries such as my home country of poland. the procedure should be based on the principle of unanimity and not on a majority in the council. second, poland's per capita emissions are only slightly above the eu average. it is worth recalling that the old member states such as germany, belgium, luxembourg have much higher per capita emissions, and the introduction of the reserve will mainly hit consumers and industry in poland due to our specific energy structure. and in this respect, it's a cost-benefit measure. thirdly, i am against attempts to control the price of emissions, such an artificial attempt to control the price. today, this emission is cheap because of the economic crisis and raising the price of the emission will not help us to get out of the crisis faster. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. under the principles laid down in the treaties, each member state has the right to decide on its energy basket. this is also linked to the principle of solidarity. please take into account the specific energy needs of polish industry. for us, the rules you propose are absolutely unacceptable. they will deepen the differences between a rich, developed europe and a country like poland that aspires to a better life for its citizens.
we've been talking about reducing emissions for a long time. have we achieved anything as a union? of course, we have reduced emissions. has the ets as a market-based system worked properly? we've achieved some of the goals of this system, but we also know that the price of carbon dioxide emissions has gone down. why did they fall? partly because there's an economic crisis and fewer emission allowances are needed. i was against the project to accelerate the introduction of the msr from the beginning. why would you do that? because he's breaking some kind of legal certainty. we knew that the msr was to be introduced from 2021. this is the agreement that was reached at last year's autumn european council on climate, where, among other things, the principle was introduced that the stabilisation reserve is to be launched in 2021. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the allowances that were to be returned to the market in 2019 and 2020. that also violates some legal certainty. the council and parliament are thus amending a law they passed just two years ago. this is not an example of good law-making, which should be predictable for businesses, for member states. the question is, will there be no carbon leakage - that's what we're all worried about - or will production from europe, from the european union, be moved abroad? we really don't know what we're going to get at the paris summit, although we would like to get a global agreement, so for these reasons we can't change these systems that we're putting in place in the european union so easily.
in writing. we have been witnessing the introduction of the eu ets for some time now, as a key element of the climate and energy package. the administrative intervention in this system and its stabilisation by the creation of a so-called co2 reserve in the single market makes it a pseudo-market. the rapporteur, mr tajani, rightly concluded that the instability of this system adversely affects the competitiveness of the industry. what kind of competition is this? the question is: how does the eu ets affect the fair competitiveness of the member states? i have my doubts. so we're looking at a desperate attempt to get out of the previous, unfavorable regulatory decisions of the pseudo-market system by regulating again. so let's be bold and say that this is a system that has failed the test and that it should be rejected because it doesn't take into account, for example, agriculture, forestry, etc., and therefore earnings through, for example, the absorption of co2, which could have a positive impact on the amount of this gas at auction. the climate and energy package needs to be modernised by abandoning the current eu ets or rejecting it altogether. the focus should be on benchmarking and performance criteria. only scientific and technological progress, not the imposition of emission limits, and the increase in the efficiency of primary energy conversion, transmission and final efficiency will reduce co2 emissions per unit of both energy and other material production.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. the culture of which we are so proud in europe should not only be supported by the national states, the member states, but also be of interest to the european parliament. without quality education, without an interest in participating in culture, we will be weaker, we will be less creative, and therefore less effective in raising funds. for each member of the cultural committee, the most important person is the young person, the one who starts education, the one who continues it and the one who is the first recipient of culture. what is encouraging is the increase in support for programmes, especially scholarships, for programmes such as erasmus+, but also for creative europe and europe for citizens. it is worrying that the importance of pilot programmes, those that have already been tested, is not being underestimated, and that pilot development programmes are not being guaranteed. on behalf of the committee on culture, i would like to draw attention to the importance of programmes such as euranet plus or projects aimed at collecting and processing extremely valuable information on artistic events, such as various festivals.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, which does not have strong vested interests in the budget area, but i would like to leave with you two messages. one is of particular importance for us in the afco committee. this is the europe for citizens programme, for which the commission has increased the funding, and i hope that this increased funding will remain untouched through the negotiations. we believe that in these difficult times, when we have a lack of trust, when we have to reach out to citizens, when we have to build confidence and when we have to improve understanding, this programme can have great added value. and the second issue – the european citizens’ initiative – is also a major tool of participatory democracy. we propose to make this initiative and this programme more visible in the budget, so we propose to establish a sub-line which will be budget-neutral but will help us to make the initiative more visible.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in taking part in this debate, i would point out that the commitment appropriations of eur 153.5 billion and the payment appropriations of eur 10 billion lower in nominal terms than in 2015 are increasing by only 2.4%, 1.6%, which means that in real terms there is virtually no increase. in this situation, it will be difficult for the commission to meet the arrears, although in the tripartite agreement all three institutions announced a reduction in payments from 24 billion in 2014 to 20 billion at the end of 2015 and two billion at the end of 2016. such a large reduction in arrears, although obvious and desired by the project beneficiaries, in the absence of a clear increase in payment appropriations in 2016, means in practice that they are rolled over. as these arrears relate to the previous perspective, those from the current perspective will have a significant delay in financing.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the year 2016 will be a very important year from a budgetary point of view. first, this will be the year in which we test whether the interinstitutional agreement on payment matters will work. it is next year that the backlog from the previous period is to be reduced to eur 2 billion. we'll see if in 2016 there's a new operating system that's going to be launched, and not just a reduction in backlog. secondly, this is the year in which we will see the first effects of the use of the guarantee system called the juncker fund. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. we hope that the first results and the first payments are already coming in, which is important in relation to the first element i mentioned, because the question arises whether the new payments will not produce the same backlog system as the previous one. in addition, 2016 will be the year for the decision on the revision or revision of the budget. the quality of the money spent in the 2016 budget will be a major determinant of how the talks on the revision of the multiannual perspective unfold. from that point of view, this year will be extremely important for us.
so when we debate the 2016 eu budget, we have to ask a fundamental question: are the €153 billion and the way it is spent the right response to europe's problems? i think they're only partially answering them. i welcome the fact that next year we are going to have higher investment expenditure, and i welcome the fact that for the first time we are going to have much more money for security and stability in europe. but there is a very serious weakness in this budget. these are expenditure to support small and medium-sized enterprises. because let's remember that these companies are the ones who are creating jobs, and that's still the fundamental social problem that we have today. so i think we should also look for higher funding for these companies.
madam president, i would especially like to thank claude moraes for his work on this subject. the european agenda on security is a comprehensive action plan. what we need now is a clear schedule on how to implement all of those solutions as soon as possible. in the implementation we should respect the division of competences – what should be done by the union and what should remain as national competences – while being more open to cooperation. the digital revolution brought us tremendous possibilities and advantages, but it is also abused by criminals. the estimated value of cybercrime activity in 2014 was usd 400 billion, and such activity relates to financial fraud, child pornography, new psychoactive substances, hacking all kinds of data and identities, and various forms of cyber terrorism. organised crime not only uses technological digital developments; the criminals are rapidly developing their skills and their tools. therefore, we need to provide our law enforcement agencies with modern technology and tools. developing such solutions is not cheap, and it is time consuming. it is clear that we need to converge on the response and promote pan-european, intercontinental cooperation in that matter and build on public-private cooperation. research and innovation can be the successful source for new forms of security; this is the new concept of data-driven security. for this, we should build up the capacity of eu agencies and give them adequate resources and a proper regulatory framework and stimulate cooperation.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. although we are against centralisation and excessive harmonisation within the european union, we as the polish delegation to the ecr will vote in favour of mrs agei's report. not only because the report rightly points out on several occasions the need to remove obstacles to smes, but also because, in times of crisis, it is particularly important to recall the social dimension of the economy and to point out the need for an active employment policy. of course, this policy should remain primarily the responsibility of the member states, but they should share best practices and the commission should encourage them to make effective efforts to combat unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. we are skeptical about artificially promoting green jobs at the expense of other jobs.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the updated guidelines for employment policies represent an important step in improving the labour market situation and in pursuing sustainable sustainable growth and the relevant europe 2020 targets. the current lack of job creation and the poor matching of the level and type of qualifications of potential workers to the needs of employers pose a serious challenge to the european union. with 24 million unemployed in the european union, there are at least 2 million vacancies for which there is a shortage of suitably qualified people, and 30% of employers complain of skills mismatch. the improvement of the situation is essential if the mobility of eu citizens is to be increased and if vocational training is to be reformed in a structural way that is more closely linked to the labour market, the use of new technologies and innovation. the dual model of education, from the upper secondary level to higher education, is one of the most promising. the possibilities for updating competences on a continuing basis in short courses and for recognising competences acquired outside formal education are also important. language skills, openness to cultural diversity and the ability to navigate the digital world are important for mobility and readiness to take up work, but also for creating new jobs. the latter are essential not only for information and communication in remote work, but in virtually every profession and at every stage of career advancement. digitalisation significantly increases the opportunities for taking up and creating jobs, and digital skills should therefore be developed alongside language skills as the basis of all education, regardless of the level and profile of the learners.
in writing. for several years now, the council has been preparing recommendations for member states on employment policies in the context of the european semester. despite this, the labour market situation in many eu countries remains very difficult, there is no significant progress towards the europe 2020 objectives and the social impact of the crisis remains one of the main challenges facing european governments. in this context, it seems appropriate to recommend that the european parliament, the institution closest to the citizen, should also be involved in the process of drawing up guidelines. the european parliament points to the need to complement the guidelines, taking into account, inter alia, the need to provide parents with affordable and high-quality childcare. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in this context, closer cooperation between business and educational institutions is also key. the document also frequently proposes the introduction of a minimum wage as an instrument to combat poverty and social exclusion. in this context, i would like to express my support for such actions. at the same time, i would also like to stress that, in the present situation, there can be no question of introducing a common european minimum wage, given the differences in the economic and social development of the member states and the legal basis laid down in the treaties.
madam president! 2015 is a pivotal year for development finance: in july, a conference on development finance will be held in addis ababa, and in september, un members will meet to define sustainable development goals to replace the post-2015 millennium development goals. however, for some years now, we have been seeing a 'scissor effect' as the needs of the poorest people increase and oda is reduced due to the economic crisis in donor countries. during the debate, many meps spoke about official development assistance and taxation problems, but i would also like to stress that innovative sources of development finance are an effective way to achieve the post-2015 sustainable development goals. the work of unitaid , an international organisation supported by the un , demonstrates the usefulness of this model. thanks to the micro-donations of solidarity collected from airline tickets over the past nine years, unitaid has been able to fund the treatment of 80% of all children with hiv and aids, 350 million patients with malaria and 2 million people with tuberculosis. the commission and the council should promote innovative methods of financing development. the proceeds from the financial transaction tax proposed by the european union are one such mechanism, as they can improve the situation in developing countries.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the forthcoming conference on financing for development will undoubtedly be one of the most important developments in development policy in recent years. for the european union, it will be a poker game to 'check' its commitment to high-quality development finance. the agreement reached in addis ababa will provide the basis for the september talks on the new sustainable development goals, which cannot be achieved without adequate and stable funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore also necessary to take into account the fact that very few member states are currently able to meet the commitment to allocate 0,7% of gross national income to official development assistance. i think it is right to treat the target of 0.7% of gnp for development policy as a global one, i.e. for the whole of the european union, which will allow for the different economic situations of individual countries as well as the different traditions of development policy.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, the debate was perfect, i have nothing to add.
president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank the broad support of most of the people in this house, who are aware that the task is not the easiest, and that current affairs will also dominate our agenda. i'm accused of being a smiling man. i must say that i am proud to be able to speak in an assembly where a peace project, which was built in 1957, is still at the heart of the priorities and ambitions of the members of the european parliament. yes, i am one of those young people who have had the good fortune, thanks to europe, to be able to study in greece, work and study in france, be from another country, get to know each other and, above all, to know that it is through diversity that we are strong. mr president, we have talked a lot about migration. no, the task is not easy and it is up to us, at the moment, to try to build bridges and, above all, to remind the solidarity that must exist on this front. i would point out that people who leave their country with a plastic bag that sums up their whole life do not do so out of a good heart and that, if they do, it is often to save their lives and the lives of their children. so to say that these are people who risk their lives and the lives of their families, their children, just for the fun of it, i find that simply outrageous. these are people who are leaving in desperation, just to save their lives and the lives of their children. (applause) i would like to thank we spoke about the paris conference and expressed the hope that it would be a success. but it must be a success! we have to make commitments. we must be able to reach agreement and have ambitions, and these must also be shared by other states. nor can we in europe adopt rules which are not those of other continents, whether asia or the united states. as i said earlier, this ecological dumping which exists in some countries which do not apply any rules, simply to be able to attract industry, must also stop. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation is not easy, whether it is brexit, grexit, immigration, i think solidarity is now more important than ever and it is our duty to explain it to our citizens. it is in the interest of all of us and, believe me, i will do everything in my power to create those bridges, which are more than necessary today.
in writing. i agree with most of the priorities for agriculture set out by the luxembourg presidency in its programme. it is good that the impact of the russian embargo on the agri-food sector is included, as the crisis has particularly affected polish fruit and vegetable and milk producers. the situation of dairy farms is deteriorating due to the russian embargo, the decline in global demand, price volatility and imbalances in the supply chain. i am therefore pleased that the presidency will also be addressing the problems in this sector. every effort should be made to de-bureaucratize and simplify the milk package. the mechanisms currently in place, particularly with regard to producer organisations, have not worked. however, i believe that the problem is not the abolition of the milk quotas but the high penalties imposed on polish farmers, among others, in the last two years of quotas. these penalties are not justified on economic grounds, as the eu-wide limits have not been exceeded. i expect the presidency to take action to put pressure on the commission on this matter. the luxembourg presidency has announced its willingness to participate in the debate on the revision of the authorisation process for genetically modified food and feed. as the opinion counter-rapporteur for the european conservatives and reformists on this issue, i expect the presidency to listen to the voices of our societies, who do not want such food on their tables.
in writing. i am pleased that the presidency will focus on promoting horizon 2020. in this context, i would draw the presidency's attention to the success rate of projects funded under this programme. at present, the success rate of projects eligible for the programme is very low, sometimes even below 3%. at the same time, the number of operators interested in participating in the programme is increasing and the quality of their applications is improving (e.g. in poland). this situation may in the long term have a demotivating effect on potential participants and lead to a decrease in interest in the programme. i hope that the presidency will address this issue and take action to improve success rates so as to allow effective competition between applicants while maintaining the attractiveness of horizon 2020 for academic and non-academic institutions. the presidency's approach to education as a prerequisite for combating social exclusion and for the active participation of young citizens in public and social life is very important, inter alia in the context of the review of the 'education and training 2020' strategy. there is no doubt that we need new initiatives, including on access to quality early childhood education and care, prevention of early school leaving, lifelong learning and special support for disadvantaged and disabled people.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i should start by saying that something is rotten in the state of greece, but i can also add that something is the rotten in the eu too. in the beginning there was the original sin of the currency union, and today we are reaping its sour fruits. i do not know about everyone else here, but this gives me the impression of a pièce de théâtre that has been unfolding before our eyes; nothing really is what it seems. the greeks want help and, at the same time, they want to have a free hand, apparently not aware of the old saying that ‘he who pays the piper gets to call the tune’. they organised a referendum which was, and at the same time was not, about what it was purported to be about. in greece-eu relations we have witnessed a number of final rounds of talks, and we know that the word ‘final’ does not mean final – it means something else. the hard-core currency unionists speak about greece, but what they have in mind is the monetary union, and they want to defend the monetary union and see it as the crucial point. they argue – and you heard it here in this chamber – that once greece is out, the entire construction, said to be so magnificently stable and firm, will fall to pieces. either one or the other, ladies and gentlemen. so if this pièce de théâtre continues, i think we will be more and more confused about who and what we are trying to save: is it the currency union, the greek society, the credibility of the government, the creditors, the reputation of angela merkel or the infallibility of the ever closer union? we certainly cannot save all of these; there will be some casualties, i am sure. (applause)
madam president, the european union promotes democracy everywhere. it has seen it done in greece, but the greek people were quite rational. they were told that moderate euro-socialism is good, so perhaps the more radical socialism of syriza is better. it is as simple as that and very logical. moreover, they were advised by half-wits in the imf, ecb and the world bank that they should cut social expenditure – which is right – but also raise taxes. how are the greeks supposed to pay their debts if anybody trying to work is being punished by income tax? only very rich countries can survive income tax and other socialist inventions. i think that for greeks, torn between euro-socialism and national socialism, there is only one way to be rescued. in 1973, chile – occupied by the gang of salvador allende – was in a much worse state than greece is today. then general augusto pinochet introduced a normal economy, and in two years chile became the richest country in latin america. (sustained heckling) black colonels are not the solution, but i hope that some golden general will fulfil his duty and save greece from the present turmoil. moreover, i think the european union must be destroyed.
madam president, mr president, mr prime minister, i have to tell you that the people of the united kingdom are not happy with this. this is a very difficult moment for the european union, but also for all our institutions. i would like to ask the president whether the fact that we are inviting the prime minister of one of the countries most important in the context of a crisis to attend a meeting on the conclusions of the european council means that we will be able to invite one of the prime ministers to attend meetings on the report of the european council next time. this is a precedent and this is a situation where it would be better to have a debate on greece than to put the greek item in the european council's report. we are interested in talking to the european council on a number of issues, and i therefore believe that this is a political mistake and should not be repeated in the future. i am a representative of the polish members of parliament, so i don't need to explain to you what solidarity is. we express our deepest solidarity with the greek people who are suffering the consequences of their wrong political decisions. we are in a situation where we agreed to join the euro in the accession treaty. today we are watching closely what is happening in the euro area. for us, the politicians and the people of our country, it is very important what the situation is in the euro area, how the euro area countries treat each other, what the rules, the obligations, the mutual commitments, the keeping of the word mean today. we're looking at this very closely because sooner or later we're going to have to make a decision. what the eurozone will be will really be the fate of the european union as a whole.
madam president, mr president-in-office, i am sure that jens stoltenberg was referring to the security of your region and mine and the situation in ukraine. i can't believe he wouldn't tell me. now for greece. the euro area was and is a political project, and resolving the plight of one of its members also requires a political solution. there are no innocent parties in this case, neither in greece nor abroad, so the language of aggression, provocation, paternalism does not belong and does not befit allies. the greek people have shown their capacity for sacrifice many times in history, but they are not willing to sacrifice their dignity, and we should respect that too.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! i feel like this is a game of who's responsible for a bad decision, not a game of finding a compromise. i, like mr olbrycht, think it was a mistake to invite you, prime minister tsipras. the european parliament controls the european institutions, not the greek government. the european union needs two things: stability and flexibility. it's either a quick compromise or a greek exit. the drachma will stabilize the union, allow us to live without the burdens of this greek drama. there are european countries outside the eurozone that are stabilizing europe, like poland, like sweden, so there's no drama if the greeks leave the eurozone. we also need flexibility, less paternalism. europe must also see interests other than those of the north. there are a lot of bad decisions that have been made: decarbonization, centrally-driven immigration policies, these are the bad fruits of centralism. stability and flexibility are the answer to europe's needs.
in writing. greece should not have been in the euro area at all, because it was not prepared to be in the euro area from the start and the first reports indicated serious violations of the conditions for greece's accession to the euro area. despite the non-compliance with the stability and growth pact and the debt burden among the other eu countries, the prevailing view was that greece should be admitted to the euro area for political reasons. the present troubles in athens are a reflection of that decision as well. the greeks are undoubtedly largely to blame for this, but few people remember that the two largest eu and eurozone countries, germany and france, have been systematically violating the provisions of the stability and growth pact in terms of debt and budget deficit for several years in a row since 2002, and have not been punished by the european commission. this set a precedent and allowed similar practices in southern european countries. in order to give greece a chance to exit the debt spiral, realistic conditions for the repayment of debts are needed and must be combined with the requirement to restructure the economy. so it seems that the part will be necessary for a long time. partial deleveraging must be conditional on the necessary structural reforms, which will lead to a lowering of living standards in the first period. to prevent poverty and exclusion, there must be a special protection programme, and above all, support for entrepreneurship.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the recent terrorist attacks (2015/2759 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! recently, we have been horrified by the terrorist attacks, which are carried out in a brutal but organized manner. the leader of the islamic state, who confessed to the attacks, said that al-qaeda was too soft and pacifist. he has been killing mostly christians, but he has also been killing casual tourists, as in tunisia, where nearly 40 people were killed, and in france and other places, where victims are even beheaded. the islamic state fighters are demonstrating their strength and the european union is powerless to stop them. unfortunately, this is the result of a previous eu policy which, instead of supporting the united states in the fight against terrorism, undermined it by setting up curious commissions of inquiry, also in the european parliament, to uncover the mechanisms of the fight against terrorism. the idiotic spiral of tracking down special services officers fighting terrorists has been set in motion, and the latter are overprotected by the 'plus' human rights standards. a decisive change in this erroneous policy will be the first step in countering terrorism for the good and safety of the citizens of the european union.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have a question about the increasing migration of people from the southern mediterranean to europe. do you not think that this immigration should be restricted so that the terrorist threat which these people represent is not transferred to europe?
mr president, we have opened a new chapter in our relations with cuba, and the americans have done the same. however, human rights violations remain a constant. in 2015, short-term and arbitrary detentions are on the rise. the ladies in white are still being detained in large numbers. detainees are held in isolation for days and are beaten. detentions are abundant. the state controls most of the media outlets and restricts access to the internet. the cuban authorities still refuse to recognise human rights monitoring as a legitimate activity while assaulting human rights defenders locally. on the other hand, on 25 june 2015, the eu held its first high-level dialogue on human rights in cuba. the topics discussed at this meeting offer hope that a constructive dialogue can be established. as we look to the future, we cannot afford for our stance on human rights to be violated. we must uphold a common position towards cuba, stipulating full economic and political cooperation in the continuous process towards a pluralist and free democracy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the chaos in yemen is deepening and the country is becoming more and more like libya and earlier examples of states that were once referred to as failed states. the saudi-led intervention of the arab coalition is not having any effect. the negotiation process has been slowed down recently, reportedly at the request of president hadji, under the direction of sheikh ahmed, the united nations representative for yemen. we're getting reports of talks in oman. let's hope all these efforts will bear fruit, because yemen is a country where very poor people are suffering. there is a real humanitarian crisis and in the near future the role of the european union, the high representative, all the institutions of the union will be to organise a major humanitarian aid plan for the people of yemen.
madam president! during the soviet intervention in afghanistan in the 1980s, the term "200-ton cargo" was used to refer to the coffin with the body of a soldier being shipped into the country. wives, mothers, daughters could at least bury their loved ones. during the war in ukraine, the kremlin regime denied russian women even this luxury. speaking at a sede meeting a few months ago, ukrainian ambassador konstantin yeliseyev reported that crematories had been brought into ukraine. this also erases any trace of the presence of regular russian troops in the neighbouring state. vladimir putin inflicts unprecedented suffering and violates the human rights of his own people.
we describe the threats and challenges in the middle east and north africa that we face, but also what we have to say about them. a moment ago, my predecessor mentioned the arab spring. the arab spring was supposed to be the answer, but what did it bring? war, increased threat to christians, threat to security in the region. and this is a new wave of immigration that we can't handle. these financial decisions we made yesterday are also the aftermath of the arab spring. let's think about what we can do specifically. we see that all this is going on, we see what's happening in sinai: attacks on government forces, attacks on israel. let us think about concrete things, such as the implementation of the declarations of the fight against the infrastructure of the smugglers who have organized a huge industry of smuggling people into europe and whom we were supposed to oppose. so far, we haven't asked the united nations for permission to act against their infrastructure where it's being built: in the ports. and let's really help those who need help. syrian christians waiting for help with equipment: who will help them? it is we, the western countries, who should help them. and these are the concrete things that we can do to make this region safe.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. unlike my friend andrej plenkovic, i will not declare my support for commissioner mogherini. i declare support for our christian brothers in these regions is far more important. i would like to say that i have great respect for the work that you do, commissioner, but i think it would be better if you, commissioner, would sometimes keep quiet rather than speak. her statements have been very controversial lately. but more important is what we should do for this region. politicians must judge the situation by facts, not ideas. if the arab spring ended in disaster, then we have to say it openly - yes, it was a disaster, and unfortunately we cannot be blind to reality on this issue.
in writing. i have read with interest the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability in the region. this 27-page document is - in my opinion - full of generalities and phrasing that unfortunately do not make much sense. the report rightly points to the growing tensions in the middle east and north africa region, and the ongoing conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya are of great concern. the situation has not improved since the arab spring, and the effects of the fight against the islamic state are weak. we know all that. the problem is that the european response to these threats is still insufficient. we are mainly concerned with mitigating the effects of this global crisis, helping migrants, not with eliminating the sources of this vast crisis. since the report does not provide precise solutions that would improve security in the middle east and north africa region, i find it disappointing.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the great polish political writer and prime minister of our government, stanisław mackiewicz, said that politics is the art of distinguishing important things from unimportant ones. the main priority of our neighbourhood policy must be to strengthen the independence and national character of the states which emerged in eastern europe after the collapse of the soviet union. of course, some will say that this is one of the two main, and not the only, areas of neighbourhood policy, but a policy that cannot choose and prioritise is not a policy at all. we have a lot to do not only in the political sphere; strengthening the independence of ukraine is also a problem of rebirth of its culture, strengthening the independence of georgia is a problem of the rule of law, not to mention belarus, where there is a struggle for the national language in general. if we cannot do this, we will not be able to achieve the objectives we set ourselves in terms of the neighbourhood policy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. when the european neighbourhood policy was being drawn up, the situation in eastern and southern europe was very different from what it is today. in the east, we have the hybrid war being waged by russia against ukraine and we have seen the annexation of crimea. the russians are also actively playing into the conflicts in georgia and moldova, where they are either an active party or are pursuing policies that they use for their own political ends. and in the south, we have the conflict in syria and the offensive of isis -- a barbaric organization that is taking over more and more territory. that is why, today, when we are debating the reform of the neighbourhood policy, we should do everything we can to maintain, first of all, a firm, coherent and assertive position of the european union vis-à-vis moscow and to defend our interests, both in the east and in the south, but to do that we need much more active and effective eu diplomacy, the activity of eu diplomacy, which is what i am calling for and what i am asking for here.
mr president, this report is very important for the consultation on the new european neighbourhood policy as a strategic tool. it is not possible to develop europe without active policies oriented towards our neighbours – eastern and southern partners. they have different capacities. we must distinguish between european neighbours and the neighbours of europe: countries which may one day join the eu and those which cannot for geographical reasons. we should divide the processes of enlargement and of building neighbourhood relations. they require different activities. neighbourhood policy tools should develop connections in some key areas, such as energy security, trade development, the common digital revolution, transportation solutions and fighting terrorism. all of those fields are crucial for growth. european neighbourhood instruments will have an impact on economic changes and also on improvements in the states’ functioning based on democratic rules, the rule of law, capacities for transparent administration and the development of civic society. all those measures and cooperation should change the quality of life of many people. these activities should be understood as an investment, not only in the future of the neighbouring countries but also as an investment in our european future, with a clear rate of return when peaceful development will change the life of societies and, in addition, reduce the waves of immigration.
in writing.– as the political situations along our borders continue to become more volatile, the coherence and strength of the european neighbourhood remains one of the most important priorities for the security of this union. relations between the eu and enp partners continue to help promote prosperity, stability, security, and good neighbourliness, based on the values of democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights. the enp has achieved success; with the one-year anniversary this past june of the signing of the eu association agreements with enp partners georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine, citizens from these states are noticing already the opportunities presented by further integration into the european neighbourhood. nonetheless, the reforms proposed in the report on the review of the enp, especially with regard to increasing security cooperation between the eu and enp partners, should be regarded with utmost importance. as the neighbours of our neighbours continue to exert unwonted pressure on the partnership, the eu must ensure the rights of our neighbours to make independent and sovereign choices on foreign and security policy and economy, free from external pressure and coercion. i look forward to a strengthened enp that will be mutually beneficial to all parties involved.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! as the course of this debate shows, we are debating two issues today. the first is the permissible levels of radioactive contamination. in this respect, i consider it reasonable to accept the standards set by the experts, assuming that they can be changed in any event. the question of the legal basis for food safety in the european union is a separate issue. here again i agree with some of my previous speakers. it should be noted that the european parliament has already been given the right to co-decide on food and feed under the maastricht treaty. i therefore believe that we should be fully involved in these important matters as equal partners, rather than as an advisory body to the commission or the council. i am also glad that the european commission sees this need and seems open to changing the legal basis. the food safety issues that have been introduced into the european union are about the health of our citizens. let us remember this and make this a priority in all future discussions on legislative changes.
blue-card question.– i have the slight impression that we have read a different text because, as far as i could see from reading mrs reda’s report, there is a great deal about the rights of authors. the whole issue of harmonising authors’ rights in europe is a crucial issue in order to treat the authors and creators properly, which does not mean locking everything. we cannot lag behind the times. is that what you are asking for?
madam president! i would like to make a few clarifying remarks which are worth making in this report, because our citizens deserve clear, reliable and extremely clear information about what we are doing here and what the documents we are working on really are about. i think that this report has certainly made a big splash, but it has also made and introduced a huge amount of confusion in the creative world. i've heard from the media that this is a report that introduces copyright reform. we know very well that this report is not a reform of copyright and we can expect to receive a draft from the commission perhaps at the end of this year. i thank the commissioner for his preliminary remarks on this subject. i also received information from the media that this is a panorama law, specifying that this is a document that will introduce a rule that any citizen who wants to take a picture of himself, for example, in the colosseum, will have to pay for it: it is not known how much and it is not known to whom. i understand that everyone wants to make their political capital wherever possible, but above all we owe it to our citizens to provide reliable, clear information. so first of all, it should be said that this is an own-initiative report which has no legislative effect and after today's vote nothing will really change in copyright law. secondly, it is worth saying what this report is, and what it should be: it should be a report which assesses the implementation of the 2001 infosoc directive in the member states. i regret to say that this is the content that was missing from the report. but we can say that after many months of difficult negotiations we can now accept this text as a joint text and a good text. a text that is very balanced, which on the one hand protects the rights of individuals, consumers, to access legally acquired content, and on the other guarantees creators, authors, the possibility to defend their rights. if that's the way we're gonna approach copyright reform, i'm cool with it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for your question and for your comments. i am of course of the opinion that the freedom of panorama is an exception which the member states can use in any way they wish. it is our duty to ensure that this happens, that no one can impose on anyone else how to create this very space of civil liberties.
the establishment of a digital single market requires the removal of many barriers to the flow of digital information. the digital space is changing at lightning speed, so the laws that govern it must change too. but these must be changes that are realistically responsive to the needs of the information society and respect the right of all of us to move in public spaces. i've received hundreds of messages, requests to vote against the restriction of the right to the panorama today, and i'm going to listen to that voice, because it's the voice of reason. the voice of people who actually move in the digital space. the storm that this has caused reminds me of acta. in my country, hundreds, thousands of people took to the streets to protest against the restrictions on digital freedom. today, too, let us not allow our privacy to be unduly restricted. we have to distinguish between the use of photography for private purposes and for commercial purposes. we're protecting copyright, we're making sure creators make a profit, but we're doing it smart! let's not make any more pointless regulations! let's not open the door to absurdity!
madam president! the european creative and creative industries contribute to around 4,2% of the union's gdp annually, providing more than 7 million jobs in the member states, including many in the digital environment. unfortunately, current procedures for copyright enforcement on the internet are not working well, if at all, and this is also hindering the growth of innovation. the economic benefits of well-educated workers, innovative research and knowledge exchange between universities and businesses are clear. unfortunately, the european copyright directive, which only regulates non-commercial research purposes, virtually excludes the transfer of knowledge from universities to the private industry sector. european companies cannot compete with their american competitors, who benefit from more flexible regulations abroad. although i have not been able to convince meps of the need to fully harmonise copyright exceptions, i am pleased that they have been reduced to the level of education and libraries, as well as the cross-border access provisions. i hope that the members from the other political groups will keep their word about rejecting certain harmful amendments that restrict, among other things, freedom of panorama and freedom of linking. in its present form, the report is a compromise stretched to its limits between the copyright harmonizationists of which i am a member and the conservative community. as such, it is not fully satisfactory to either party. however, i must congratulate the rapporteur, julia red, on her enthusiasm and patience.
in writing. the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright is an own-initiative report, so it does not have legislative power, but is a kind of initiative, it aims to draw attention to certain problems. in general, the document supports the liberalisation of copyright, but an amendment has been proposed which requires the author's or the office's consent for the commercial use of photographs with paintings, works of art or monuments. currently, such photographs can also be published for commercial purposes (in book publishing, television publications or online materials) without the owner's consent and without any payment. if the report were a legally binding act, such an amendment would require the withdrawal of existing products from the market or the author's consent to use the 'panorama' in his publications, which would certainly require complex administrative and legal procedures and would entail the corresponding costs. i hope that in today's vote the european parliament will vote against the restriction of the freedom of the panorama, because there is no indication that the lack of harmonisation of the rules in this area will create any obstacles for creators.
in writing. the report on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society is an own-initiative report. the text does not have legislative power, but it does give an idea of what changes in the protection of rights the european parliament believes should be made in the eu. the report emphasises the need to make copyrighted content accessible across borders. the report stresses the importance of territorial licensing, especially for the financing of film and audiovisual production. the report contained a controversial amendment that was supposed to limit the freedom of panoramas, but the final text of the report makes no reference to this issue. after months of negotiations, the legal affairs committee has proposed a common balanced text that, on the one hand, protects the rights of consumers to content acquired legally, and on the other, gives authors the opportunity to protect their rights. the report provides a good basis for the european commission's proposals on copyright reform, which will most likely be presented later this year.
in writing. free-range fishing should be particularly protected. the attempt to insert a clause on the restriction of the freedom of panorama in mrs julia reda's report under discussion today is unfortunately a repeated practice of undermining the legislative process, but also the opinion of parliament itself. i would remind you that most of the countries of the european community have implemented the infosoc directive with the exception of the 'freedom of panorama'. article 33 of the polish copyright act provides for the freedom to distribute works displayed in public collections on public roads, streets, squares, etc. i know that even if we adopted an unreasonable solution in this report, it would not change the law, but it would unfortunately undermine the credibility of ourselves and the stability of the solutions that constitute the basic canon of civil liberties. as you can see, the appeal for common sense is needed again.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank very warmly all those who have been involved in the process of preparing this report on my own initiative. i would like to thank in particular my counter-rapporteurs, the secretariats that support us, the staff, including the executive director of the european endowment for democracy, the representatives of the european external action service and the european commission. first of all, i would like to thank the ngo sector, which has been very supportive in evaluating and commenting on the eed's work so far. what is the european fund? this is a foundation created in 2012 under belgian law by the union and the member states, also with the participation of other countries outside the european union. the initiative to establish the fund was taken by the polish presidency in 2011. it's been four years since then, and the fund itself has been running for two years. the initiative is based on the fact that the traditional instruments for promoting democracy have not worked, for example, during the arab spring or in the events that took place east of the european union, in the neighbouring countries. the provisions of the lisbon treaty and the experience of the peaceful transformation of the central and eastern european member states, including the experience of solidarity in poland, also help us in this respect. the fund's task is to respond more quickly, more flexibly than through traditional instruments. it is also intended to support those who have not been supported so far. the fund emphasises the involvement of actors on the ground in countries undergoing this process of change, transformation. it has so far supported over 186 initiatives in virtually all the eu's neighbouring countries, both in the eastern partnership and the union for the mediterranean. and it's worth quoting one of the beneficiaries who said this: after the revolution, after the financial aid was given, they all disappeared. the edf brings a breath of freshness and hope, providing political and moral support not only to old well-established organisations but also to new actors. the eed-supported parties also pass positive checks in democratic elections over time as happened with the euromaidan activists in ukraine. they are now deputies of the supreme council. the eed's ability to provide bridging funding, i.e. funding that persists between the end of one funding and the start of the next from the european union, for example from the edhr fund, is particularly noteworthy. these procedures are more complicated, longer, and therefore oftentimes this period of interruption of funding proves difficult for those who are supported. that's why bridging funding is so important in these cases. as part of the evaluation report, we held a number of debates and hearings to find out how the european endowment for democracy is assessed. among other things, we met with ngos, who told us how they had used the eed, what their experiences were. we also held a number of consultations, both with representatives of the edf and of the collaborating institutions, the european external action service and the commission. the report assessed the two-year action to date and made a number of recommendations. the key conclusions are that the eed fulfils the tasks set out in the statute and, which is particularly important in the european parliament's recommendation of 29 march 2012 on the establishment of the eed. it adds significant value to the european union's toolbox for democracy in the world. at the same time, we call for the edf to be guaranteed sufficient and stable funding in the long term, both from the member states of the union and from the commission itself. it took a positive decision, as the fund received another three-year funding.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade agreement with the united states strengthens the defence alliance. american investments in poland are among the most desirable. they concern the production sector in innovative fields, which means the creation of high-skilled and well-paid jobs. however, i would like to stress that the ongoing negotiations must take into account the specific nature of polish industry and the sensitivity of certain sectors. it's also a chance to settle some visa issues. i was a professional analyst of international trade agreements. each of them contains some element of arbitration. the isds mechanism in the bilateral polish-us trade agreement, which is the subject of a european debate, has proved to be an acceptable solution. out of 6 arbitration cases, 3 were won by the polish party, 2 ended in a settlement and 1 was won by the investor. ttip also provides an opportunity to improve these conditions. i warn against replacing a well-functioning bilateral mechanism with a european arbitration court. paradoxically, the isds, which is part of bilateral agreements between the us and the countries of central and eastern europe, has not had any negative effects. its inclusion in the eu-us trade agreement enhances the competitive position of the countries in my region in the european union. i'm for a common market from california to the black sea, not from lisbon to vladivostok. our voice must be clear: we want american investment in europe, and in our region in particular. they are not only a guarantee of development, but also of security.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) aims to stimulate economic growth on both sides of the atlantic. such a unified market, covering one third of world trade, would be worth two trillion euros, which would also translate into a significant increase in employment. in order to benefit from such extensive cooperation, citizens, consumers and employees of companies should be adequately protected. that's why i supported the removal of the clause on the use of isds private arbitration in the contract. the reason why citizens are afraid of ttip is because of isds, with 97% of the nearly 150,000 respondents from the 28 member states opposed to isds in its current form. we cannot leave the fate of millions of citizens in the hands of private arbitration. the isds in the form originally proposed is not needed in eu-us relations and foreign investors should not enjoy more rights than domestic investors. potential disputes should be dealt with in a transparent manner and by independent judges in public hearings, where a review mechanism is in place, consistency of judicial decisions is ensured and the jurisdiction of the courts of the member states is respected. the referral of the amendments to the report to reconsideration by inta did little to change the situation beyond the 'compromise of the compromises' of its chairman, martin schulz. with the assurance that isds will disappear from ttip, i decided to support the entire resolution and i'm glad that most of us here felt the same way.
in writing. ‒ ttip is the world's largest free trade area project, and it is a landmark for both parties, the us and the eu. the question is: will the agreement give the same impetus to economic growth for the contracting parties and will the number of jobs in the countries of the union increase or decrease? there is no doubt that both sides can initially benefit from the use of all the reserves that are not yet used. however, over time, the dominant party may become the american side. this is due to its competitive advantage lower energy and labour costs, and the fact that it has a large number of raw materials at its disposal. looking at global markets in the long term, the eu can become a valuable partner for the us in far eastern markets, including china, the largest creditor of the us. does europe have any other directions for free trade? i'm not sure. it can improve its global competitiveness by opening a free trade area with the eurasian free trade area at the same time as ttip. unfortunately, this direction has been blocked quite effectively for the eu, which unwillingly raises the question of the relationship between ttip and the unrest in ukraine. the ttip should be analysed in a holistic way, including in terms of the shape of the future global market. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because i believe that the conclusion of this agreement is important from a geopolitical point of view. the effects of the russian embargo, which are severe for polish farmers, have shown the importance of establishing permanent and solid trade partnerships. in this resolution, the european parliament gave a clear signal to the commission that agriculture should not be a bargaining chip in these negotiations. the report called for a balanced and mutually beneficial agreement to be negotiated, one that would not compromise the quality standards of european food products. i also supported this report because of the call for the identification of a list of sensitive products, although in my view this provision should not only call for the introduction of transitional periods but for the complete exclusion of these products rather than the use of this measure as a last resort. it is good that this report calls for a safeguard clause which can be applied if imports increase to the detriment of member states' economies. the resolution also included an important appeal from the polish citizens to the commission to put pressure on the us government on the visa issue.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu's continued negotiations with the us on ttip in its current form. the secrecy of the negotiations is the best fuel for the interests of the european citizens to be appropriated by lobbyists and multinationals. the isds mechanism, on the other hand, deprives states of their judicial sovereignty. the reduction of certain european standards, particularly in the field of food safety, is also unacceptable. i am convinced that negotiations should be resumed with the active participation of national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report by mr lange on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the last-minute compromise on isds proposed by the rapporteur meant that i did not vote against this report. i still have many doubts about the issues of smes, gmos and access to the air and sea transport markets.
in writing. ‒ the fundamental question about ttip is whether it will improve our competitiveness, whether it will be an opportunity or a threat to businesses and consumers. looking at the various statistical analyses, we cannot formulate a definite answer to these questions. nevertheless, the agreement, which aims to liberalise trade between the union and the united states, will undoubtedly lead to increased competition from large us corporations, which most small and medium-sized enterprises may not be able to cope with. as a result, the beneficiaries of this agreement may be mainly large european corporations which are already preparing for its implementation. without sensible protection of our market and regulations to protect consumers and the public interest, we are doomed to domination by commercial and financial interests that are all about economic profit. the ttip agreement may also entail the risk of harmonising norms and standards, unfortunately by bringing them up to the lower, cheaper, us level. this poses a major threat to food safety, labour rights and the further relocation of production to lower cost countries. the mechanism for settling disputes between states and the investor is also highly questionable. in view of the above concerns, i abstained from voting on the resolution on the negotiation of the ttip.
in writing. ‒ the eu-us free trade agreement currently under negotiation, if well and effectively implemented, should bring benefits not only to the contracting parties but also to the global market. it is important that the provisions of this trade agreement support businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in their equal access to the american and european markets. but i believe that ttip can be a game-changer for the globalisation of prosperity. it's not the united states that migrates to mexico or other latin american countries, and it's not the europeans that migrate to the middle east or africa, but the other way around. this process is proof that democracy and prosperous economic growth in europe and north america are for the people. if so, the leaders of the two contracting states should strive for the globalization of the market, a process that will not only standardize economies but also raise the living standards of people around the world. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to the european commission and hope that the negotiated agreement will not be hampered by obstacles to its implementation.
in writing. ‒ free trade without barriers and borders is a very important thing that can benefit all parties to trade. however, it is often the case that the negotiating partners approach the talks from different positions. the united states is still an economic powerhouse that is very good at identifying and protecting its interests. the european union is not always able to deal with this well enough to take account of the expectations and objections of all the member states. i believe that the negotiation of a trade agreement with the usa is an opportunity which the ec should seize to create conditions for economic cooperation which will give a chance to develop not only the large companies but also the small and medium-sized enterprises. in many cases we must be very vigilant, especially where sectors of the economy that are important to poland can be compromised, as is the case with the chemical industry. the final shape of the isds and the issue of geographical indications of origin of products are also of concern. in these areas, the european parliament must constantly look to the commission for guidance and remind it of the concerns of the citizens of the member states about this agreement. i voted in favour of this report because the eu needs new economic impetus to break the morass of the last decade. this is not unconditional consent, of course, but a negotiating mandate for the commission, which will be settled at the appropriate time.
in writing. ‒ the shareholder engagement directive and the corporate governance statement are another example of the ongoing process of administrative interference with the free market, competition and the freedom to conduct a business that is specific to the european union. i think that this kind of philosophy which is dominant in the community should be changed. fortunately, many of the very controversial provisions in the draft directive have been amended or corrected during the parliamentary work, which is why i did not vote against this proposal. but i would prefer in the future that the european parliament and the other institutions of the european union should deal with more important matters that require real intervention rather than interfering with the free movement of businesses in a competitive market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by mr beleta because its assumptions are contrary to the polish national interest. attempts to raise the price of emission allowances are a blow to polish industry and economy, which are characterized by a certain energy structure, strongly based on coal. 90% of poland's electricity production is based on this raw material. there is no doubt that this will result in a change in the choice of energy source on a country-wide scale and will deepen the economic collapse of polish mines. it should be noted that the emissions in poland are only slightly different from the eu average. the old member states, such as germany, luxembourg and belgium, have much higher emissions, but these economies will not experience the change in the price of allowances as strongly as poland. each member state has the right to shape its own energy basket according to its capabilities and needs. i think the eu's interference in this area is going too far.
in writing. ‒ the pursuit of environmental improvement is a necessity that humanity cannot afford to abandon, but it is not the process that should be the goal, but the human being. because in all the initiatives we take in europe and the world, we should remember the people. a clean environment is good for them, of course, but the pursuit of these goals should be a process, an evolution, not a revolution. the aim is to improve the quality of life while avoiding the negative consequences of current actions. radical changes, economic restrictions, including industrial ones, do not have immediate effects on the environment, but they do have a significant impact not only on the situation of companies and their competitiveness, but also on the quality of people's lives. i therefore voted against this decision, considering it to be too far-reaching, with no prospect of improving the environment in the short term, and at the same time posing a serious threat to the economic development of the european union and its individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this resolution because i believe that the decision on the conditions of employment of seafarers should be left to the member states. i also think that regulation of this sector is unnecessary because it creates excessive bureaucracy and administrative constraints. it is ridiculous to say the least that the union is engaging hundreds of mps and tens of thousands of officials to decree the right of seafarers to access the internet on board ship.
in writing. ‒ despite the application of eu labour law to all sectors and categories of workers, seafarers have so far been excluded from the scope of the following directives: 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec. depending on the situation at national level, this exemption may have a negative impact on the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, in particular with regard to the right to information and consultation and the right to decent working conditions. as only some member states made use of these exemptions, this led to a situation where the same categories of workers were treated differently in different member states. i voted for mrs morin-chartier's report because it is important to ensure equal treatment and equal rights for all workers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the commission’s proposal to extend labour directives to seafarers. seafarers up until now have been excluded from several protective labour directives, including the insolvency directive, the collective redundancies directive and the transfer of undertakings directive. having a well-qualified and experienced staff is vital for the health and growth of the maritime industry throughout the union. as the number of seafarers is decreasing, ensuring that seafarers enjoy uniform rights across all member states is essential to ensuring that the european maritime industry is well staffed. extending the protection of these social policy directives to seafarers ensures their protection under the european charter of fundamental rights. this measure will hopefully ensure that all labourers are treated fairly across member states, leading to more interest in maritime careers, thus preserving the european maritime know-how for future generations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the financial and economic crisis and its social consequences justify the need to reformulate the employment guidelines for member states' policies. one of them is to promote equal opportunities and to combat poverty and social exclusion, which affect 120 million europeans. the fight against poverty and exclusion must be based above all on growth and employment and on modern and effective social protection. to ensure such effective, efficient and simplified social protection, it should be combined with a broad set of social policies covering: targeted education, promotion and support of social justice, health, housing, anti-discrimination, reconciliation of private and professional life through the provision of high quality care for children and non-independent adults, and family policy. reforms of pension systems to ensure decent living conditions and equal opportunities for women and men are also important.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because job creation and the protection of workers' rights should be a priority of european policy. the job-friendly economic recovery in europe is still not there, which is a prerequisite for ensuring decent living standards for people and strengthening the economy. the review of the europe 2020 strategy provides an opportunity to make quality job creation and improving working conditions a pillar of eu policy.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the debate on european employment policy, i would like to draw attention to two issues: the way in which this policy is conducted and its monitoring. the european union is taking many actions and is presenting many guidelines for employment growth, which are mentioned in the reports adopted today, and which are unfortunately presented to europeans mostly as national actions. those considered less popular are presented as european recommendations. such rhetoric is wrongly increasing the dislike of the eu institutions among eu citizens. it is therefore important that citizens are properly informed about the actions and initiatives we are proposing for them. so that on the one hand they can engage with them effectively, and on the other hand to strengthen their trust in our work. in addition, it is important that the development and implementation of employment policies be consulted with local authorities and take account of local and regional disparities. in the context of monitoring the effects of this policy, we need to strengthen the ways in which we assess the actions taken. the monitoring and evaluation should be carried out with the involvement of the authorities at all levels, the social partners and civil society, as proposed by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by laura agee because i think it is a good and substantive document. i fully agree with the rapporteur that member states' policies at central, regional and local level should promote job creation by removing bureaucratic barriers, promoting and training entrepreneurial skills among young people, developing micro and small enterprises and promoting employment in the white and green sectors and the blue economy. i am also convinced that the implementation of policies aimed at equalising the opportunities of disadvantaged groups, in particular children and young people from families affected by poverty, the unemployed, immigrants and people with disabilities, is socially beneficial and leads to an increase in the employment rate of these groups in society.
in writing. ‒ according to eurostat data for 2015, the number of unemployed in the eu stands at 23 815 000, of which over 18 million are from the euro area. efforts should be made to develop indicators of absolute poverty and to combat poverty and social exclusion. in this context, it is also important to take into account the role and problems of schooling. member states should take joint action to tackle the effects of unemployment, promote the training of science workers and the employment of lower-skilled workers, and open up the eu labour market. income protection, social guarantees and compliance with labour law should be taken into account when designing policies that affect the eu labour market. it is also important to work towards making the union labour market more attractive, with a view to stimulating the activity of citizens belonging to different age groups. there is also a need to tackle the social impact of unemployment by collecting reliable data on absolute poverty, welfare systems and removing administrative barriers. we should pay particular attention to measures to ensure access to quality education, to address weaknesses in education systems and to ensure that as many people as possible are properly trained. it is also essential to combat any discriminatory practices in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green jobs initiative report because i believe it addresses important issues facing the eu economy today. the so-called green economy is a growing sector with huge potential for growth and job creation. however, the transition to green employment is not only an opportunity but also a challenge. i believe that the final version of the report, which was the result of negotiations between all the political groups, maintained the right balance between these two aspects and addressed many important issues. i am pleased that the role that smes can play in the green economy has been highlighted and that it has been stressed that any changes should not result in additional burdens for entrepreneurs. i also believe that the transition to a green economy must not be achieved simply by increasing investment in new technologies or introducing new regulations. first and foremost, we need to invest in social capital and equip workers with the right skills that employers are looking for in a changing labour market where some jobs will certainly be created, but others will inevitably be replaced.
in writing. - i voted against because i think the whole project is absurd and unnecessary. the whole climate package, green energy and green jobs is just an idealization of economic life. this green ideology translates into difficulties in business, many times more expensive than, for example, energy in the usa, additional fiscal and administrative burdens. it is the proposals for additional fiscal burdens that i consider particularly damaging.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy. i believe that moving towards a circular economy requires two basic criteria:the life (cycle) of the product;the ease of disassembly and the possibility of recycling. this first criterion depends on reliability, i.e. physical wear and tear and the loss of the use, aesthetic or other characteristics of so-called moral wear and tear. the latter depends on the design of the product which facilitates (allows) easy disassembly and is made of materials which are suitable for deliberate recycling rather than forced disposal. it is necessary to establish legislation to ensure that both these criteria are fully met when products are placed on the market. of course, the additional important criteria for the placing of products on the market should be the complete safety of the consumer as well as the safety and protection of the environment (climate). for this latter purpose, it is necessary to introduce a differentiated environmental tax and a corresponding scrap tax.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of the circular economy model is the answer to key challenges for european union policy, such as increasing employment and growth, promoting innovation, re-industrialisation and the smart use of resources. in a circular economy, existing materials and products are continuously reused and recycled, and thus waste is minimised. it is a model that is necessary to maximize the productivity of available natural resources, which will bring significant economic benefits.
in writing. ‒ the rational management of resources is particularly important for the eu, as resources are essential for the proper functioning of industry and many other sectors of the economy, which provide eu citizens with a variety of key products and services. we must not forget that europe remains one of the world's largest importers of raw materials, and that about 40% of the materials used in the eu come from outside. for some substances, such as phosphorus, which is important for agriculture, the dependence on imports is even greater. it is important to take a sensible approach to resource efficiency and savings, as we cannot allow these actions to lead to a lower security of supply of certain goods and services and a decrease in competitiveness. however, where possible and safe for the eu economy, new waste management solutions, the creation of a closed loop of non-renewable resources, greater use of renewable energy sources and water management actions should be promoted. in addition, available data indicate that water supply issues may soon become a major problem in some countries. better use of available resources would have a positive impact on both the economy and the environment and would support job creation.
in writing. ‒ i am a supporter of a rationally developed circular economy. the concept that we don't have to own everything, but we can borrow or repair things that are getting old, is a good idea. however, i believe that the european parliament's report, despite its proper purpose, contained many solutions that were impossible to implement for economic, political and social reasons. i also believe that this report, if it were to be implemented as it stands, could threaten some of the 350 000 jobs in european industry, with the result that our entrepreneurs would be replaced by companies from outside the european union. they are not burdened by the same environmental requirements as the european ones. i have therefore decided to vote against the report by sirpa pietikäinen.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the european security agenda. the effective implementation of this comprehensive agenda requires adequate financial resources. we therefore need clear declarations from the council of support for the actions being taken at different levels under this agenda. in this context, i would like to emphasise the role of education and integration programmes as tools to combat the causes of radicalisation. we also need new programmes that help to spread awareness of radicalisation and help to extend cooperation in this area to all stakeholders. new innovative tools to combat terrorist propaganda online and to develop critical thinking skills among young people are also important.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it addresses all the key issues in the region and gives hope for a peaceful solution to the key security challenges in the middle east and north africa. the focus was primarily on the fight against isis and other extremist groups and support for political change in tunisia and the development of civil society. the report also addresses the issue of ending the civil war in syria and ensuring the peaceful nature of iran's nuclear programme in return for reintegration into the international community.
in writing. ‒ i fully support and expressed this in my vote on the report by mr eduard koukan the demands for a review, revision and change of the european neighbourhood policy. the objective of this policy to develop an area of common stability, security and prosperity remains as relevant as ever, as does the method of financing the neighbourhood policy under the principle 'more for more'. however, the growing economic crisis and subsequent armed and political conflicts outside the eu's borders show that the union should engage more dynamically and decisively in partnership to support the transformation of our southern and eastern neighbours towards democratisation, the rule of law and greater respect for human rights. it is also important to separate the neighbourhood policy from the policy towards the eu's associated countries and to bear in mind the diversity and specificity of the eu's neighbouring countries, their different interests, motivations and different possibilities for change. i therefore support the report's call for the appointment of high representatives specialising in the eu's eastern and southern foreign policies. bilateral policies between the eu and its neighbours should also be coordinated and strengthened, particularly in the areas of security, border protection, and the fight against trafficking in human beings and economic crime. i also support the call for increased funding for the eastern partnership, whose importance is often underestimated, and for an evaluation of the procedures and appropriateness of the current spending on the neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, when the european neighbourhood policy was launched, we have seen a marked increase in threats in the eu's immediate neighbourhood. war has been raging for months on the eu's eastern border in ukraine, and russia continues to fuel political conflict in georgia and moldova for its own ends. on the southern border, the arab spring is having a devastating effect, with wars and an uncontrolled wave of emigration. the problem of war-torn syria remains unresolved, and the islamic state is growing in strength in the area, with its reach and criminal activities reaching further and further. an effective neighbourhood policy is needed now more than ever, which is why i voted in favour of the cookan report. the eu's security requires a firm and coherent stance towards moscow and concrete solutions to the challenges from the south. this cannot be achieved without eu diplomacy, and i hope that commissioner mogherini and her european external action service will step up their efforts in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted today is a signal to the european commission that some of the existing copyright, exceptions and limitations need to be reviewed and better adapted to the fast-changing digital environment. our priority should be to improve the protection of fundamental rights such as the fight against discrimination and the protection of press freedom, but also to adopt an exception allowing libraries to legally borrow works in digital formats for personal use. one of the most controversial topics of the discussion was the so-called freedom of panorama, that is, the possibility of taking unlimited photos in public spaces against the background of buildings or works of art. i voted with conviction today against paragraph 46 of the draft report, which introduced a restriction on this freedom. i am glad that this was not included in the final report and that is why i supported the final text of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it guarantees the protection of the rights of authors and performers on the one hand, and access to culture and information on the other. it also strengthens some exceptions and limitations, but it ensures good conditions for the creative sector and promotes the preservation of european cultural diversity. i voted against paragraph 46 of that report, which restricts 'the freedom of the panorama', because the consequence of the amendments would be to prohibit the free use of images of objects in public spaces in photographs, which would significantly restrict access to information. i believe that such restrictions have no place in the modern information society.
in writing. ‒ on 9 july 2015, the european parliament adopted a controversial non-legislative report by a member of the council. the report focuses on aspects of the implementation of the information society directive ahead of the european commission's proposal for copyright reform, which is to be presented at a later date. among the report's findings was the controversial issue of the panorama, which has aroused considerable public discontent. the ecr group supports the maintenance of the status quo in the member states and voted to remove any references to the 'panorama law' project as the proposed solution is inappropriate and restricts citizens' rights. as a result, due to the fact that there are different views on this issue in different eu member states, the report was adopted without any reference to the 'panorama act'.
in writing. ‒ the mep's report has generated a lot of media interest and a lot of excitement among both the creative community and internet users, in particular on the issue of the so-called freedom of panorama, to which the final text of the report makes no reference. i have decided to abstain from voting on the final text for two reasons. firstly, it is an own-initiative report which does not change the legislation in any of the member states of the european union, but merely indicates a wish list of what needs to be improved and in which areas the commission should carry out analyses on the future harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights. the result is that we maintain the status quo, whereby each member state will continue to decide for itself whether to introduce restrictions on the freedom of the panorama. secondly, i think the report should focus on the implementation of the information society directive, but very little of the final text deals with this issue.
in writing. ‒ copyright, like the right of every creator to dispose of his or her own work, should be subject to special protection. intellectual property, like any other property, should be protected by law and no creator should feel that his legal position is weaker and that his rights to dispose of and benefit from his work are ignored or marginalised. the digital age has created many new opportunities for creators to present their works to a wide audience, but it has also led to the emergence of new forms of copyright infringement. the european union wants and must respond to this challenge and the need to regulate copyright properly. i think that the report adopted today is a good step in the right direction and that is why i voted in favour of it. but you can't go beyond the boundaries of common sense in trying to protect the interests of creators. this was the case with panorama freedom, which has been the subject of wide debate throughout the eu. i think that the imposition of very strict regulations on most member states in this area is unjustified and harmful. citizens cannot be held liable for, for example, taking photographs of familiar places when travelling in europe and wanting to share these photographs with their friends via social media platforms. that's why i voted against amendment 46 to restrict freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ 11 july 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, which took place during the bosnian war. the city, despite being a safe zone protected by un troops, was taken over by bosnian serb forces and paramilitary units, including serbian irregular police units. over 8,000 muslim men and boys were murdered in the days of slaughter, and nearly 30,000 women, children and elderly people were deported in a massive campaign of ethnic cleansing. the process of european integration, and the creation of the european union, is based on the desire to prevent wars and crimes, such as those that took place 20 years ago in the former yugoslavia, from ever happening again in europe. i fully condemn the srebrenica genocide and have therefore voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution by the five largest political groups in the ep.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the draft cambodian law on ngos and trade unions (2015/2756 ((rsp)).
member of the commission.– mr president, i think we are discussing cambodia, so we can come back to the hungarian situation some other time. as many of you have pointed out, cambodia does indeed have a very vibrant civil society, and many ngos and associations are active in various areas. the cambodian government has for many years argued that an overarching law on associations and ngos was necessary to provide simple and transparent regulation to the sector. we in the european union have been following this very closely since the idea of the legislation first surfaced many years ago. the draft laws have been a recurring topic in informal and formal meetings between the eu and the cambodian government. our delegation and our ambassador there are very active and have frequent contact at different levels to make sure that our views on this are crystal clear and passed on to the government. we have made clear to them that the legislation that they are planning should enable, and not limit, freedom of association and expression in cambodia. we have pointed out that a democratic process needs to be transparent and include meaningful consultation with all relevant stakeholders. a culture of dialogue is the basis of any democracy – dialogue with the opposition, civil society and the private sector. it is only through this dialogue that the government can take into account the needs and concerns of those who are subject to the legislation, and an inclusive process enables government to enact laws that are truly in the interest of the people. the national assembly of cambodia has a very important role to play here, so we welcome the decision by the national assembly to organise consultations on the draft ngo law, and some of these have actually started to take place already. we hope that the results of this will be reflected in the text of the law. it is also important to have, as some of you do, peer-to-peer contacts between european parliament members and members of the cambodian national assembly, in order to help them strengthen the capacity to scrutinise and to improve legislation in close contact with civil society and in a spirit of dialogue. we will continue to monitor the situation and developments, because in times when civil society and trade unions often face increasing obstacles and restrictions in many countries, cambodia has an opportunity to prove that it is truly committed to strengthening its democratic credentials.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the democratic republic of the congo, in particular on the two detained human rights activists yves makwambala and fred bauma (2015/2757 ((rsp)).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the joint resolution of the european parliament on the democratic republic of congo is an important political signal to the authorities in that country. that is why i, like my other colleagues, call on them to release as soon as possible fred bauma and yves makwambala, activists from filimbi, a youth movement in congo. it is ironic that the republic of congo is described as a democratic republic, considering that any manifestation of pluralism or opposition to the authorities has recently provoked a strong reaction from the ruling authorities. arresting oppositionists, especially youth activists, is not the basis of democracy. so is the restriction of freedom of speech and assembly. the death of a dozen demonstrators in january this year shows that the situation is really getting out of control for the authorities in kinshasa, and is slowly moving towards what is happening in burundi. with elections in congo still more than a year away, the european union's continued support for the electoral process in congo will depend on the implementation of the observer mission's recommendations and the improvement of the situation in the country.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on bahrain, in particular the case of nabil rajab (2015/2758 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of two christian pastors in sudan (2015/2766 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! pastor yat and reith are not victims of imaginary islamists, but of the real government and the social intolerance on which that government is based. their situation is a very concrete contribution to christian-muslim relations in the 21st century. here in europe, we can discuss the scale of immigration, the relationship with the islamic civilization, everything. to discuss this is our right and our duty as people with a public responsibility, a responsibility to others. but no country in europe is harassing muslims because of the sermons they give in mosques or because of their religious practices. in this parliament, in this house, european muslims can freely speak about their grievances, social expectations and we always discuss these appeals, we always respond to them. so we have an obligation to demand the same for christians in all muslim countries, the same as we give. to do this, we must first identify with these brothers, because, unfortunately, they often suffer because of our indifference.
mr. chairman, please! i too would like to express my sincere thanks to the authors of this resolution. and i do share the view of my colleague mr jürgen that we should look very deeply and with concern at the situation of christians in muslim countries. but i would also like to express, and i would also like to refer to this statement, to express my concern and also the need for some other discussion. the debate on the source of this indifference, which jurek says. indifference to the plight of persecuted christians in various parts of the world. at times there is a resistance to acknowledging these sufferings and to paying attention to the situation of christians in these countries. and i think we also need to have a debate in this parliament one day on the issue of the marginalization of christians in public life in europe.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
before the vote on paragraph 8:
i hereby close the vote.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - madam president! - i have to go. the committee on agriculture welcomes the report. we are in favour of restrictions on the trade in seal products because of the cruelty of the hunt. it reminds us of what mahatma gandhi once said, that the level of civilization and its moral development can be judged by the way animals are treated. cruelty to animals, the cruelty of these hunts is not just animal suffering, but it's also an affront to human dignity, because cruelty is an affront to our dignity in the 21st century. so these restrictions are necessary, but we also have to understand the particular situation of these traditional inuit communities and we have to maintain exceptional solutions for them. that is the aim of the regulation we are debating today, and that is why i am in favour of its adoption.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you find this report excellent. the report calls for the total, total opening of the european union's borders to immigrants. do you share this view and would your party, represented at federal level in belgium, also support such a far-reaching demand? do you support such a radical proposition to open the borders of the european union to immigrants?
will you accept a blue—card question from mr zdechovský?
mr president, the most fundamental right of humans is to be treated like humans, not like cattle. look at iceland. it is an island with 70 000 families. 10 000 of those families – not the government – have accepted to take refugee families. how many would german families accept? 8 million or perhaps only 800 000? how many would poland accept? 2 000, 10 000, 200 000? nobody has asked them. his holiness francis i has demanded that every parish accept one family. we have 53 000 parishes in poland. but here we must deal with families, not with governments. governments treat people like cattle, like the jews in 1944 when 300 000 hungarian jews were sent to auschwitz. the refugees are not being killed of course, but cattle are not usually killed either. still, refugees are being treated like cattle and this is unacceptable. we have 11 german concentration camps in poland now. germany is paying us with eu money to keep refugees behind barbed wire. they are escaping to germany and the polish police catch them and taking them back. finally, if we pay the refugees social benefits, we encourage more to come. they move and then there will be another thousand drowning in the mediterranean. those who pay social benefits have blood on their hands. remember, socialism kills.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! the mission of the european union is to safeguard the fundamental rights of the human person, those which are at the heart of the european legal tradition: the right of the human person to life, the right to a family, freedom of expression. i'm also glad that these new areas of sensitivity have been recognized. first of all, it's about the rights of people with disabilities, and then it's about media freedom, and it's about fighting corruption. i am very saddened that the report has once again fallen victim to ideological correctness. we cannot blame islamophobia when the problem in europe is not islamophobia, but radical islam threatening our continent. that's very irresponsible. it was also very irresponsible to criticise european immigration policy as uncooperative and closed. these are not the pieces that serve europe and human rights well.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 september 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing.– the legal basis for respecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens used to be in the references in the treaties to the echr. however, with the treaty of lisbon coming into force, the charter of fundamental rights was given the same legally binding status as all other treaties, meaning that all member states shall prioritize the respect of fundamental rights. the situation is not exactly desirable. of course, we seem to be within the limit of normal, there are no evident cases of capital punishment or tortures, nonetheless, as a member of the petitions committee i have observed that the petitions regarding breaches of fundamental rights exceeds the acceptable standards. most of them concern the discrimination on sex or origin basis. moreover, the easily noticed tendency is that the less economic stability, the higher the amount of fundamental rights violations recorded. i believe that we should be able to strengthen the monitoring mechanism in order to prevent the breaches from happening in member states of eu. unfortunately, having in mind the migration crisis, we must be prepared for the significant increase of number of petitions concerning violations of fundamental rights based on the origin, and since no consensus has been reached so far, we will not be able to control it.
i would like to draw the commission's attention to the situation of polish farmers, who are suffering from a drought on an unprecedented scale, as is clearly shown by the lowest water levels in our country's largest rivers in two hundred years. the losses estimated so far in crop production alone are in the billions of euros, and all indications are that they will shift to animal production in the autumn due to the dramatic shortage of so-called bulk feed. it is true that the polish government has announced support for farmers, but only as de minimis aid, which means that some farmers will receive it in a situation where the very basis of the existence of most farms is threatened. moreover, the budget allocated to this aid is around eur 100 million, which means that it is not enough to compensate for the losses or even to restore agricultural production for the following year. i therefore ask the commission once again to take an urgent interest in the effects of the drought in poland and other countries of central and eastern europe and to provide aid commensurate with the scale of the threat from the so-called crisis reserve. thank you very much. thank you.
climate change is leading to extreme events, flash floods and catastrophic droughts. the large financial resources currently devoted to mitigating these changes are not able to reverse the adverse trends. climate change has dominated the debate on greenhouse gas emissions, while the increasingly pressing issue of adapting to climate change has been pushed to the back burner. the recent drought in europe, followed by floods, is a clear warning sign. this indicates the need to re-evaluate the eu's climate policy, which should focus more on adaptation, including afforestation to mitigate climate change. and that's where the main funding should be. in the case of my country, poland, this will include the need to return to the ambitious investment concept of the vistula programme. thank you, sir.
in writing. the €4 billion currently spent on controls and advice to stakeholders and farmers is far too much. it is a scandal that so much money is being spent on this in the face of the crisis caused by the russian embargo or the drought that has affected poland and other countries in central and eastern europe. unfortunately, the recent reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) has contributed to further diversification of the rules, which consequently leads to more errors in the field. however, these costs may increase as a result of the implementation of the latest reform, in particular due to the introduction of greening measures. simplifying and de-bureaucratising the cap should therefore be a priority for us. i support mr sarvamy's report because i believe that the quality of controls needs to be improved, not increased by the member states, the commission or the court of auditors. the cap's red tape should be reduced and a system of instruments should be established to enable a real distinction to be made between error and abuse.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i congratulate mrs šojdová on her report, which raises important issues relating to the promotion of youth employment in the european union. i would like to draw attention to one important aspect, namely the promotion of the development of the social economy and its important role in combating social exclusion, especially for young people. such businesses not only generate income and drive the european economy, but also support the development of a civil society that is committed and sensitive to the needs of others. many young people want their work to be not only a passion but also a social activity. i therefore believe that an important element of promoting entrepreneurship should be the building of european social capital from volunteering based on the knowledge and skills of young people, through valuable internships, to international exchange programmes for students and young entrepreneurs. these measures will certainly ensure the future development of the european community.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. last year i organised a conference for young people in lublin - my home town - to encourage them to start their own business. as a result of this discussion with the young people, i was convinced that the factor holding them back from developing this business activity is not a lack of good ideas or entrepreneurial spirit: they really have a lot of cool ideas. the bigger problem is either the lack of financial barriers or the lack of knowledge about how to overcome them. i therefore believe that we need to put more emphasis on an information campaign on the tools available in this area such as the european social fund, the microfinance instrument and many other eu programmes such as business angels.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur mr diaconu and the shadow rapporteurs for the quality and the comprehensiveness of his report. the report covers the full breadth of cultural heritage, making a wide spectrum of policy recommendations and suggesting next steps to be taken. the commission shares the report’s view that supporting, enhancing and promoting cultural heritage through an integrated approach is of paramount importance. in addition to its intrinsic value, cultural heritage contributes significantly to economic and social development and it touches the lives of all europeans, nurturing their sense of belonging and strengthening their european identity. as we speak, heritage is unfortunately the target of acts of vandalism, defacement and even destruction, as we can see in the terrible images of destruction in iraq and syria. but there are also other, less violent, threats to heritage. we are so used to our surrounding historic environment that we may forget that such a fragile beauty needs a lot of care to survive. the report will help the commission to fine-tune the existing instruments and to make further progress on putting into practice tools, policies and mechanisms in an integrated way to address the challenges the heritage sector is facing today. the commission has already taken action on many of the spheres of action mentioned in the report. the commission has started to work with the member states on participatory governance. in 2016-2017 this work will be continued on heritage skills, training and knowledge transfer. the commission is also promoting peer learning among cities and regions to support the exchange and transfer of the wealth of experience and good cultural practices, including heritage. the commission will also continue to enhance internal cooperation and availability of information on financing opportunities within the existing european funding programmes. if i might just respond to the honourable member’s observations: unfortunately, my answer is the same as it was during my hearing. the commission has no powers to handle debates between two member states and historic debates. we have simply no powers for that; these are bilateral conflicts and bilateral discussions.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr diacon and all those who, in producing this report, have proposed a number of effective solutions to safeguard europe's common cultural heritage. i support the initiative in the report to create an eu portal dedicated to this heritage, providing information on eu cultural funding programmes. i would like to emphasise the importance of film heritage as an essential part of europe's cultural heritage, including the need to digitise european films, especially as only 1,5% of this heritage has been digitised. it is also important to introduce film education at all levels of education, starting from the earliest years, which would enable young viewers to use the media critically and better understand the content offered to the audience. the adoption by parliament of my report on european cinema in the digital age is a good example of how european cinema and the need to digitise our film heritage is an important aspect of protecting european identity and our common cultural heritage.
mr. chairman, please! animal cloning is a bad practice and it is very good that we are introducing a directive in the european union to ban this practice for breeding purposes when animals are used for economic purposes. and i'm in favor of this being an unconditional ban, not just a temporary one. each ban is by nature temporary until it is lifted, but it is a clear signal that the european union is against the practice of cloning. and not just for ethical reasons - the commissioner was thinking about the treaty basis and ethical reasons - i think that economic considerations are also clearly in favour of this, because the future of european agriculture should be based on natural production methods. cloning is part of that vision of agriculture, animal husbandry, agriculture turned into food factories -- into meat factories. this is a very bad idea for europe! we should defend natural methods.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to say at the outset that this is a matter that needs to be regulated and it is good that both the european commission and the european parliament have taken up this matter. i would like to say that i fully support the report by the rapporteur for two reasons. i'm leaving out the ethical issues, i'm leaving out the moral issues, and there are two pieces of legislation that need to be addressed. the first thing is animal welfare. there is no doubt that animal welfare has nothing to do with cloning, but it is a great suffering for animals. and the second issue, perhaps more delicate, is food safety, and food safety is always going to be part of the huge public health area. scientific studies and scientific evidence on the safety of food derived from meat from cloned animals are very limited or limited. and for that reason, cloning should not be allowed to provoke other scientific research. we don't know much, and we probably won't know much more. and the question is, why do we need to know more? as for identifying meat, processed meat, that comes from cloned animals -- the issue for geneticists, for scientists, is quite simple. and here -- as the previous speakers said -- it's just a matter of time before we can provoke these tests.
ladies and gentlemen! the european commission's proposal on animal cloning is not enough in its current form. it is necessary to adopt a regulation, not a directive. scientific research clearly indicates that cloning techniques do not currently meet animal welfare standards. therefore, a total and permanent ban on cloning should be introduced. i would like to note that so far no third country has established effective labelling and identification and registration systems for imports of clone offspring or food derived from clones. meat and milk derived from offspring and clones themselves have already started to appear in the food supply chain and it is therefore necessary to adopt appropriate regulation on this matter. eu citizens do not want food from cloned animals on their tables and have a right to know where the products they buy come from. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! cloning animals is a matter of reasonable doubt. not only does it negatively affect animal welfare, disrupt natural biodiversity, but it also puts surrogate mothers at risk of suffering. this process is characterised by high mortality rates for both embryos and cloned animals, many of which die early in life. so i am very much in favour of a total ban on animal cloning. let's promote healthy, natural food. i hope parliament will vote to ban the sale of food derived from cloned animals. the safety of our citizens depends on the safety of our food, and healthy food is food produced in harmony with nature. thank you, sir.
in writing. ‒ a 21st century society should not tolerate forced labour in any form or under any circumstances in a free market. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has agreed to ratify the protocol to the 1930 international labour organisation convention on forced or compulsory labour. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention of the international labour organization with regard to matters related to social policy. the protocol’s provisions are strongly connected to fundamental rights. forced labour is, in fact, a significant violation of rights stated in article 5 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which has a legally binding status since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009. the protocol introduces new measures that can prove very useful in combating forced labour. one of the most important provisions focuses on making efforts to ensure that enforcement of legislation related to the prevention of labour exploitation applies to all economic sectors. moreover, the other purpose of the protocol is to ensure that labour inspection services are strengthened. this is essential for us to minimise the aforementioned problem; however, we must also take steps to help the victims of labour exploitation. this protocol establishes protection for them together with access to remedies such as compensation. i believe that this protocol will help us to move forward and hopefully eliminate forced labour from our society.
in writing. ‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight fundamental ilo conventions. the council adopted a decision authorising member states to ratify the parts of the protocol to the forced labour convention falling within the eu's competence. the support for the council's decision in this respect is linked to doubts that have arisen at the time of the implementation of the convention by some member states as to the competence of the union to negotiate on behalf of the member states. the legal basis in the treaty allowing the council to adopt decisions defining a common position in an international organisation of which the eu is not a member was also called into question. the council decision therefore seems to be worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to fill existing legal gaps which cause serious problems in the application of customs and agricultural law. this implies abuse of the transit system monitored by documentary and physical checks, which are limited in scope. at the moment, losses resulting from false declarations of origin for containers amount to some eur 100 million in 27 member states, and these are only the offences detected. the report aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and to reduce red tape. i voted to move to second reading.
in writing. ‒ there are many species of wildlife whose economic exploitation by humans should be prohibited or severely restricted. the seals are certainly among them, and that is why i voted with conviction for stricter rules on trade in seal products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. that report aligns the union standards for trade in seal products with the wto requirements. the trade of inuit, which is the result of their traditional way of life and the need to survive in difficult conditions, and not the desire to commercialise the use of seal products, is exempted from the ban. however, it shall be conducted in a manner that does not endanger the population of those animals, that avoids pain and undue suffering and that takes into account their welfare.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the cloning of farmed and bred animals because, on an issue of such importance for public health and animal welfare, a regulation is needed, not a directive. the proposal put forward by the european commission is not sufficient. i supported the report by mrs moi and mrs sommer because i believe it is necessary to introduce a permanent ban and to extend it to the offspring of cloned animals, the food and feed derived from them and the biological material used to breed clones and their offspring. most of the people in my country don't want cloned food on their tables. that is why, as a polish member of parliament, i voted in favour of this report, which in my view proposes better solutions than the commission's proposal.
in writing. – as we have already agreed in the committee on agriculture and rural development, cloning basically should be prohibited in the european market. scientific studies showed that cloning leads to malformations of the animal’s uterus and foetus. we cannot know for certain whether food from cloned species will be dangerous to human health or not. moreover, the question of traceability poses serious technical difficulties, especially to farmers, who would certainly need to bear additional costs for keeping track of cloned animals’ descendants. that is a heavy burden, both financially and administratively. other doubts are raised in connection with ethics and religious beliefs: cloning interferes in animal welfare and rises moral questions. animals should be treated as sentient beings, not a commodity. our task, as politicians, is to represent our citizens. european consumers do not like the idea of cloning, and, what is more, the idea of producing food from cloned animals. therefore, we reject the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it has been scientifically proven that cloning can be a threat to the welfare of farmed animals, which raises questions about its ethical aspect. the effect of cloning may have long-term negative effects that have not yet been scientifically investigated. the use and placing on the market of related products should be prohibited until further progress is made in this area. i support a total ban on the cloning of farm animals within the eu and a ban on the import and sale of products derived from cloned animals, which is crucial for ensuring food safety in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by meps moi and sommer because of the harmful effects of cloning not only on humans but also on animals themselves. cloning exposes animals to enormous suffering, and there is very little scientific research on the safety of food derived from cloned animals. the appropriate labelling of products derived from offspring and of clones themselves already on the market is also lacking. consumers have a right to know the origin of the products they buy, and it is therefore necessary to introduce not only a labelling system but above all the registration of food products produced from meat of cloned animals. the european union should make a decisive change in the direction of food safety and take care of the health of its citizens. this will not be possible if the market is flooded with products derived from genetically modified or cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ the production of safe and healthy food should be based on natural methods. only then can we be sure that the products that end up on our tables are not time bombs. the use of cloning for animal husbandry is therefore unacceptable to all who have the welfare of both humans and farm animals at heart. the fact that we currently have little evidence of the impact of eating food that has been cloned or genetically modified is a testament to the difficulty of conducting such robust research. in this situation, we consumers will be the guinea pigs and bear the long-term consequences of the introduction of such products. europe is able to produce enough food using natural methods and it is unwise, even economically, to look for artificial ways of increasing its food supply, because it will hurt its producers. i therefore fully support the permanent ban on animal cloning and the extension of this ban.
in writing. ‒ i would like to draw your attention first of all to the article on the development of anti-semitism in europe, the consequence of which is the exodus of the jewish community from europe to israel. last year, of the more than 26,000 immigrants, more than 7,000 came from france, and more than 4,000 from war-torn ukraine and putin's russia. the rise of anti-semitism and violence against the jewish community in western european countries is a fact. the contrast to this situation is poland. this is despite a wave of false propaganda about alleged polish camps, calling german nazi concentration camps (unesco nomenclature) polish, only because they were located in german-occupied poland. jews see poland as a friendly country. we are dealing with a renaissance of jewish culture. i hope the world will finally see the reality of what we're all about.
in writing. ‒ human rights, and civil rights in particular, are one of the greatest legacies of european political culture. whatever the situation on our continent and in the world, we must protect this heritage and promote and propagate the implementation of fundamental rights also in non-european countries. but it must be done rationally, with respect for history, traditions, religion and, above all, the mentality of other nations and communities. the many instances of ignoring local realities in asian, middle eastern, and african countries teach humility in proclaiming one's own views as superior to others.
in writing. ‒ the report 'the state of fundamental rights in the eu' aims to diagnose the level of respect for human rights in the member states and possible violations. it identifies problems that may threaten the future guarantee of fundamental rights for every citizen of the union. however, it should not interfere with matters which are within the discretion of the member states of the union, in particular in matters of personal convictions based on national traditions. in my opinion, mr ferrara's report violates the principle of subsidiarity and is incompatible with the polish constitution. it calls for the inclusion of same-sex partnerships and marriages in indigenous legal systems, the introduction of a controversial sex education program, and the sanctioning of social stigmatization of lgbt people, as well as the promotion of reproductive and sexual rights. all these requirements are violations of the polish legal system and an intrusion into the sphere which is regulated individually by the member states. these are: the violation of freedom of speech, the freedom to raise a child according to one's beliefs, and the model of marriage as a union between a man and a woman enshrined in the polish constitution. i think that the demand for such standards at eu level is an excessive leaning towards a left-wing worldview which is not shared by all, or even by most, eu citizens. i therefore voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of hearings of commissioners-designate, i would point out that the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committee should be the key to the acceptance of a commissioner in a given area. it is unacceptable that a commissioner-designate whose nomination has been rejected by the committee responsible should continue to be a commissioner responsible for the same area. such practices, which took place in the election of the current european commission, undermine the democratic process, credibility and competences of the commission as a whole. in this context, i would like to emphasise the role of the president of the european commission, who should allocate responsibilities among the individual commissioners-designate in such a way as not to raise substantive doubts about their qualifications in the field in question. however, if the commissioner does not receive the approval of the competent parliamentary committee, his responsibilities should be changed.
in writing. ‒ building prosperity must go hand in hand with increasing the security of citizens. this is a goal that is difficult to achieve in today's world without the development of modern techniques and technologies. but it must be ensured that they serve the public and are not used against it. this is the direction in which all the activities of the european union and the individual member states, including international cooperation with other countries of the world, should be directed.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the relationship between human rights and the development of digital surveillance technology. it notes that third countries use such digital surveillance technologies to impose restrictions on their citizens, in breach of their rights. at the same time, it is critical of the many companies based in the eu and its member states that export such technologies that can be used for surveillance. this can lead to the stigmatisation of companies operating in countries with a bad reputation. therefore, a proper balance should be maintained between the use of digital surveillance for the purposes of combating terrorism, extremism and crime and respect for and observance of human rights. unfortunately, the report under discussion lacks such a balance, and i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i see the need to de-bureaucratize the cap and spend funds on things directly related to the work of farmers, not officials. during the adoption of the reform package in the polish parliament, i raised concerns about many of the proposed mechanisms, pointing out that the planned reform could also have negative effects on beneficiaries, in particular polish farmers. however, the cap reform package was adopted in breach of the procedure for scrutiny by the competent committee of the polish sejm, which was reached with a delay preventing it from having a reliable impact on the legislative process. now it's being criticized, and one of the proposed remedies is to have outcome-based controls. i am concerned about the lack of clarity in the concept of the performance management system in all areas of the cap in the proposed amendments. there is no guarantee that this will be a fair method in the diversity of agriculture in the member states. i also believe that the increased role of implementing acts, especially delegated acts, does not contribute to the transparency and de-bureaucratization of the functioning of the cap. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the eu's financial interest is undoubtedly a highly important economic, financial and political issue. we have the financial means of the citizens of the member states. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of the railway network, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the railway network. the rapporteur has fully demonstrated the importance of this issue, which is particularly important when the criterion of efficiency is used to assess the rationality of the use of funds. the report's weight is further enhanced by the very high expenditure on agriculture in the community budget. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report is about improving the quality of controls carried out under the cap and making it more flexible by a single control system covering all stages from final beneficiaries to the eu institutions. at the same time, the change in the system aims to reduce red tape and to harmonise procedures in order to avoid abuses and to simplify the cap. all this is to attract new workers and farmers to agriculture, to ensure the vigorous operation and development of this sector of the economy. the report also calls for changes in the legislative framework to maintain the necessary balance between administrative burdens and effective financial control. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ for decades, it has been said that the european economy is based on family businesses, and that they are its healthy foundation. the recent economic crisis has made very clear the strength of these companies, which is mainly due to their long-term growth strategy and lack of a drive for quick profit. unfortunately, many family businesses face difficulties in accessing finance, over-stretched administrative requirements or a tax system. the fact that every year 150 000 european companies are wound up because of succession difficulties and that as a result nearly 600 000 people lose their jobs is a very clear indication of the scale of this phenomenon. action to protect family businesses is therefore necessary. i agree with the rapporteur that the member states have a key role to play in this respect. the union has little say in this area, as it is often a matter of tax policy and internal labour law. a good step could be to try to create a single european definition of a family business but this requires taking into account the local specificities in each member state. the union should also consider some form of promotion of this business model in countries with a small tradition of family businesses. it is also worthwhile to get involved in preparing family businesses for generational changes so that the number of businesses that are closed down does not increase dramatically in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ family businesses are a special category of enterprises. these are often companies for which long-term business planning, even for generations, as well as a particular perception of the role, tasks and functions of the employee are often more important than immediate profit. these enterprises are also of great importance for vocational education and training and for the cultivation of traditions and the development of a working culture and of business. for these reasons, the european union should be an advocate for the interests of family businesses, supporting and helping them to develop. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ supporting family businesses is extremely important, their role in the european economy, their reliability, their contribution to social development and the reduction of unemployment are fundamental factors that should be taken into account when analysing their situation. the report calls for a universal definition of the term 'family business' which takes account of the conditions in each member state, the size and sector of the business, and is used for statistical purposes, to include family businesses in instruments such as cosme, to identify barriers to the development of family businesses by means of a test modelled on the sme test in order to minimise them. the report notes that such enterprises have a much higher financial own contribution than others, and calls for changes to allow for a more widespread and effective use of foreign capital and other alternative sources, especially given the fact that many family farms are under-financed due to the economic crisis. i believe that such action will have a positive impact on the situation of these companies. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ the family plays a huge role not only in the sphere of education and shaping social attitudes, but is also an important economic link. family businesses have a very long and glorious tradition. it was this form of economic activity that gave birth to modern capitalism. today, with the dominance of large companies and multinational corporations, we forget the role family businesses play in boosting growth and reducing unemployment in europe. unfortunately, the economic crisis of recent years has left a very strong mark on family businesses. their functioning today requires special support and consideration in eu strategies. we need tools to define and support the existence of family businesses and to create the conditions for them to modernise and meet the demands of the digital economy. i will support any action that leads to this, including this report, which is a first and much needed step towards properly highlighting the impact of family businesses on the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the knowledge-based economy is an opportunity for the european union, but especially for some of its member states, to develop. in order to maintain and strengthen europe's competitiveness on the global market, the community should increase its expenditure and its range of instruments to support projects linked to the development of the modern economy. this is also important in very difficult maritime industries, especially given the huge numbers of people employed in these sectors.
in writing. ‒ the report put to the vote deals with the state of the maritime economy. it calls for the development of coastal and inland areas, better use of hydropower and existing infrastructure. it stresses the need to develop shipbuilding by using increasingly innovative technologies to make european products more competitive with those from the far east, which is a major player in the shipbuilding market. the maritime economy is very complex, with not only traditional sectors that require investment, but also very modern ones with huge potential. the use of the achievements of biotechnological research, the exploitation of mineral and energy resources is becoming increasingly important. all scientific achievements in the maritime sectors should be used to improve the quality of activities carried out in the 'blue economy'. this report, while drawing attention to the need to develop fisheries, to make better use of fisheries resources and to all the aspects mentioned above, is needed from the point of view of poland, where the marine sector exists but requires greater attention. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. in the context of this report, i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the development of entrepreneurial skills should accompany young people at all stages of education, from primary to academic. i would like to stress the crucial role played by academic staff in this process, whose appropriate qualifications and competences are essential to ensure the effectiveness and authenticity of the teaching process. i also point out the need to strengthen entrepreneurship education combined with vocational guidance in activation programmes for disadvantaged groups. at european level, it is important to collect, support and build on best practices in entrepreneurship education to develop a common, coherent strategy for entrepreneurship development as part of the european lifelong learning strategy.
in writing. ‒ a high level of education, not only theoretical but also practical, among young people is one of the most important elements of labour market competence. the policy of the individual member states, but also of the european union itself, should take this obvious fact into account and implement it in order to facilitate the entry and functioning of young people in the labour market. the union's action in this area is to be welcomed, although not equally well implemented in all member states. further action is therefore necessary to improve the situation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report ‘promoting youth entrepreneurship competences in education and training’. the struggle to increase the rate of employment within the youth society seems to be a significant issue that requires prioritization. in order to help boosting the economy of european union, it is essential to create the sufficient conditions, which will encourage young people to enter the entrepreneurship area. with respect to the above, i find the substance of this report very promising. it does not only emphasise the need for the constant development of entrepreneurial skills, which can be achieved by providing conditions for effective education and training, but also provides the necessary guidance on how to achieve these targets on both international as well as national level. moreover, focusing on the development of the entrepreneurial skills at all levels of education is absolutely crucial. this approach may help young people to become creative and responsible at the very young age, and therefore broaden their mind-sets, which is exactly what europe needs.
in writing. i consider the report of the deputy deacon on an integrated approach to cultural heritage in europe to be important and well prepared. this is a good reason to congratulate the rapporteur. the eu's guiding principle unity in diversity is reflected in it. diversity is first and foremost a tradition and a culture that becomes our common heritage. the equal treatment of all national and regional cultures and the preservation of their heritage is our common task. in a union of countries with different economic and financial capacities, the proposal of certain standards and methods of financing community support measures is a very important step towards the practical implementation of this principle of unity and diversity. stressing the importance of the common values and cultural contributions of each member state serves to stabilise and strengthen the union. the promotion of best practices in this area will help to preserve the cultural heritage despite the clear trends of globalisation and the tendency of budgets to cut and save.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the drive towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage in europe. increased cooperation between member states in promoting their common cultural heritage is very important for the construction of a common europe, dialogue and understanding. in particular, now that we are facing an increased influx of migrants, getting to know the culture and heritage of different countries is conducive to facilitating intercultural dialogue, greater understanding and respect for other cultures. i therefore fully support the recommendations in the report to develop a new integrated approach to cultural heritage. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the recommendation to introduce cross-disciplinary cultural heritage pathways at different levels of education, which will allow the learning of the common cultural heritage and the value of cultural diversity at different stages of education.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage is a common resource and a common good. it can be vulnerable to overuse and underfunding, and as a result, to neglect, destruction and sometimes oblivion. therefore, the care of heritage is our common responsibility, while its protection is primarily the responsibility of national, regional and local authorities. despite its references to 'european culture', the report is balanced and also makes reference to national and regional cultures. the report describes the instruments available at eu level, which complement national and regional programmes. it also sets out measures to enhance political cooperation at various levels and projects to support heritage management. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the particular importance and value of cultural heritage as a common good and resource. the commission was also asked to create a single eu portal dedicated to tangible and intangible cultural heritage, gathering information from all eu programmes financing cultural heritage and focusing on three main aspects: databases of tangible and intangible resources, possibilities for financing cultural heritage, data on the state of european cultural heritage and data relevant to the preservation of this heritage. it calls for support through targeted funding, analysis, research and pilot actions, and the establishment of a newly introduced principle of multi-source funding, which allows for the complementary use of different european funds in the same large-scale project. the issue of increasing the financial burden on small infrastructure projects to the level of funding received by unesco projects was also raised. member states were also asked to consider applying tax credits to restaurant work and to engage in a dialogue with representatives of the cultural sector. all this is aimed at increasing the level of care for cultural heritage, which is an essential part of the european tradition, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the cultural sector is not covered by community policies. that's good, that's good. by remaining in the hands of state governments, of various local governments, culture is better protected in its diversity and originality. it is good, however, that parliament, the culture committee, is taking up the subject of cultural heritage and the activities of contemporary artists on a fairly regular basis. recently, at my request, we have been looking at the situation in syria and iraq, where very valuable monuments have been destroyed. the act of aggression was not on the occasion, not as a result of the side effects of war, but because of the monuments themselves. this is an extraordinary act of vandalism. today we have a report on heritage, primarily european. a good report, preceded by an interesting debate in committee. i want to highlight its value and thank the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a new mechanism of participatory democracy that, since 2012, allows eu citizens to directly influence and shape the political agenda. the citizens' initiative 'right to water', known as 'right2water', was legalised with almost two million signatures from citizens from all eu countries, and became the first success of this mass petition. in view of this, we might expect the european commission to react accordingly. instead, we got a response that was vague, lacking ambition. in particular, the commission has not presented any legislative proposal that would be key to the right2water initiative. in response, the european parliament endorsed the report on its own initiative and encourages the commission to honour its commitments. however, we are witnessing an attempt to weaken this report and to present an alternative solution which lacks all the key elements voted on in the envi committee. the european citizens' initiative aims to show citizens that the eu is willing to get involved in the issues that matter to them. we must remember that the unity of the european institutions on such obvious issues as universal access to water is important not only from the point of view of the legislative procedure but also from a purely moral perspective.
in writing. – ‘right to water’ is an initiative to provide every human with access to water and sanitation and it is the very first initiative which has met the requirements set out in the regulation of the european parliament and the council on the citizens’ initiative. more than 1.9 million citizens supported the petition to bring it to the european commission and finally to the parliament. according to the citizens’ opinion, internal market rules do not apply to water since it is not commodity, but a public good. therefore it should be excluded from liberalisation. the united nations organization recommends that a household should not spend more than 3% of its income to pay for water. i agree with the author's opinion that we should give high priority to water access and sanitation within the official development assistance framework to support the sector in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ water is an essential element of human functioning, not only biologically but also economically. for these reasons, it must be considered a strategic resource for humanity, one to which every human being must be guaranteed equal access. the measures taken to achieve this are certainly right and worthy of support. however, in pursuing those objectives, states or public entities should not be regarded as merely reliable and certain in providing access to that resource. the private sector should also be able to carry out its business tasks in this area, directly or indirectly, for example through public-private partnerships, in conjunction with the obligations incumbent on the state.
president of the council. madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to present to you the council's position on the draft budget of the european union for the year 2016, adopted unanimously by the council on 4 september. the main objective is to support economic recovery, investment and job creation on the one hand, and to stimulate the financing of the union's external action in the field of migration policies on the other. the budget is therefore a reflection of solidarity both internally and externally. i'm going to give you a three-part presentation. the first will be devoted to current affairs, the second to the seven main principles which guided the council's agreement and, finally, the third to the highlights. in view of the tragic situation we are facing and in view of the tens of thousands of refugees who have fled war and put their hopes in europe, i would like to stress the support that the european union is providing at the moment, in addition to the initiatives of the member states. the european aid to the current migration situation and the asylum-seekers crisis is one of the manifestations of this internal and external solidarity. some figures: the two main funds under shared management are the asylum, migration and integration fund and the esf, which have €3.1 billion and €3.7 billion respectively for the period 2014-2020. in 2015, more than 45 national programmes were approved for just over 1 billion commitment appropriations. the commission has already released just over 210 million in prefinancing. the emergency aid component of these two funds also made it possible to release just over 60 million. the council and the european parliament jointly endorsed the european agenda on migration in may 2015, which is based on four pillars and aims to improve the management of migration flows. we have also approved amending budget no 5 to this end. the european union is also one of the main donors in the region surrounding syria, with €855 million allocated for humanitarian aid to syrian refugees in lebanon, jordan and turkey in 2016. as regards the relocation of refugees, the council accepted all the commitment appropriations for greece and italy amounting to eur 150 million. these issues will certainly be addressed by commission president jean-claude juncker in his state of the union address tomorrow, where he will also highlight and set out a new package of measures in this area. the second part will be devoted to the seven main principles which have guided the council's work. first, we felt it was important to address and resolve the problem of late payments, which could be resolved by the end of 2016. the council position includes the appropriations necessary to implement the agreement on the payment schedule in 2015 and 2016. second, the council has retained all the appropriations for the european fund for strategic investments in 2016, which is a top priority. thirdly, the migration policy has considerable funds, including temporary measures for greece and italy to relocate 40 000 refugees to their own countries, and the asylum, migration and integration fund, which will receive 515 million euros, an increase of 35% in 2016 compared to 2015. the fourth great principle is humanitarian aid. payment appropriations increase by 16% in 2016 compared to 2015 to reach over eur 1 billion. the fifth principle is that the reductions in appropriations have been made in accordance with guidelines based on several parameters, namely the rate at which the project programmes are progressing, the rate of implementation of projects which has been achieved and is expected to be achieved and, finally, the foreseeable and realistic absorption capacity of the various programmes. the sixth guiding principle: the budget lines adjusted by the council are mainly those for which the commission had proposed very large increases. so it is to these very high figures that we have applied downward adjustments. but if you look at the absolute increase in appropriations in these areas, you will see that the increases are still substantial. the seventh and final principle: in the face of the political instability, sometimes dramatic, around the european union, the council has decided to leave sufficient room for manoeuvre to act in the event of increased tensions and conflicts. i shall very shortly review the details of the council's position, which was adopted unanimously on 4 september. the proposal covers commitment appropriations of 153.3 billion and payment appropriations of 142.1 billion. the increase in payment appropriations was 0.6% and the decrease in commitment appropriations was 5.4%. we are therefore very close to the 5% reduction proposed by the commission. the position we have adopted makes it possible to reduce the gap between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations and, therefore, the remaining balance to be settled, and therefore reduces the risk of payment arrears. let us now consider the highlights of each section. under the heading 'competitiveness for growth and employment', which is at the heart of the political priorities for investment and employment, payment appropriations increased by 8.6% and commitment appropriations by 7%. in order to implement the european fund for strategic investments, which is a top priority, redeployments have been selected for the following: the horizon 2020 programme and the connecting europe facility (cef). funding for major infrastructure projects has also been reduced, notably galileo, iter and copernicus, as well as for joint ventures. despite the reductions, the payment appropriations allocated to horizon 2020 increased by 9,3% (840 million) compared to 2015, to reach eur 9,9 billion, a considerable figure. the council also slightly adjusted the mechanism for interconnection in europe downwards. however, the commitment appropriations are increasing by 53% (eur 760 million) and the payment appropriations by 14% (eur 203 million), which is very close to the commission's proposals. the cosme and erasmus programmes, which are very popular, were not affected by the cuts. i would point out that the erasmus+ programme will have a budget of eur 1.8 billion in 2016, which represents an increase of 30% compared to 2015. in the heading 'economic, social and territorial cohesion', appropriations decreased very slightly by 0.45%. under the heading 'sustainable growth: natural resources', there was a slight reduction of 0.45% in payment appropriations and 0.32% in commitment appropriations compared with the commission's proposals. in heading 3 'security and citizenship', which i already stressed in my first part, commitment appropriations increased sharply compared to 2015 (8.7%) and payment appropriations increased by more than 15%. this increase mainly concerns actions in the field of migration, a political priority of the european union. the council also accepted the use of the flexibility instrument. in heading 4 the council largely adopted the commission's proposals. payment appropriations increased by 22.4% to over eur 9 billion. i would like to stress that the council has aligned itself with the commission's figures in such fundamental areas as humanitarian aid, civil protection, macro-financial assistance to third countries, the guarantee fund for external action and support for the palestinians. in heading 5 'administration', the proposal provides for a moderate reduction of 31 million which will not affect the proper functioning of the institutions of the european union. the council has not changed the administrative budget of the european parliament, but will remain vigilant about the continuation of the planned 5% reduction in staff until 2017. a meeting was also decided upon during our budgetary trilogue in july so that parliament, the commission and the presidency could discuss this issue together. in conclusion, madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, aware of the challenges ahead, particularly on the migration front, and in view of the intensifying conflicts around the european union, the council has deemed it essential to find a balanced and responsible compromise which leaves a certain margin of manoeuvre to deal with the worsening situation which is obvious. the budget is therefore marked by this internal and external solidarity, which is very important to us all.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like first of all to thank minister gramegna for his presentation of the council’s reading of our draft budget for 2016. the commission fully shares the view that budgetary discipline and sound management is what people expect from us, but our citizens of course also expect that we attend to urgent needs in these times of many ongoing crises. president juncker will present tomorrow, in his state of the union speech, proposals for the refugee crisis. furthermore, in response to recent market developments in the dairy sector, the commission announced yesterday a comprehensive package of measures for eur 400 million of eu funds to be used for the benefit of farmers immediately. the financial impact of the migration package and the agricultural basis will be reflected in an amending letter to be proposed in october. this amending letter will include the higher-than-expected surplus in the agricultural sector. let me now turn to the original proposal of the commission on which the council reading was based. the draft budget for 2016 is a comprehensive proposal covering all political priorities: to stimulate investment, growth and jobs, through the agreement reached on the european fund for strategic investments, amending letter no 1; to improve our capacity to meet the collective challenge of migration; to reinforce europe in the world. our proposal still leaves a margin of eur 2.1 bn in commitments and eur 1.6 bn in payments below the already tight mff ceilings. all in all our draft budget for 2016 is a proposal for a responsible budget, a budget for the many competing needs of europe, and a budget that has a margin for unforeseen events. regarding payments, we have a draft budget that respects the agreed payment plan and that will bring us back to a sustainable budget for cohesion policy. the commission welcomes the council’s reading with regard to the 2007-2013 budget for cohesion policy programmes in heading 1b. however, we are concerned about the proposed cuts on a range of selected budget lines across headings, supposedly justified by low implementation rates in mid-june. our proposal aims at reversing the effect of payment shortages from the last years, including in headings for external actions. for many of the budgetary lines affected by the proposed cuts, the situation has radically changed since last year. we now have high implementation rates, especially under heading 4, instead of delays, and from our point of view as a result there is no reason to reduce these budget lines. with regard to commitments, i see with satisfaction that the council is endorsing the commission proposal on migration. let me stress that important actions were already taken in 2015 to address migration challenges. twenty-three multiannual national programmes under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund are approved, and some eur 205 million of pre-financing has already been paid out to our member states for both funds – eur 122 million from the asylum, migration and integration fund and eur 83 million from the internal security fund. money will now be able to flow. what we propose in 2016 is a continuation of the amending budget proposed in 2015, and more must be done in the next years. regarding heading 1a on growth and jobs, the commission does not share the council’s view on the reasons why the substantial cuts on programmes such as horizon 2020 or the energy strand of the connecting europe facility, are decoupled from political priorities like the energy union, or the spirit of our agreement on the financing of the european fund for strategic investments. under heading 4, cuts are proposed in our main programmes for the neighbourhood, pre-accession and development cooperation. reducing the extent of our assistance in the mediterranean will not increase security and will run contrary to the overall political goal for the economic development of this region so close to us. on administrative expenditure, for a number of years already the commission, as well as a number of other institutions, has shown self-restraint and sound administrative management. we have continued working with limited increases in administrative expenditure. we are progressing towards our achievement of a 5% staff reduction target over five years, yet the council’s position seems to ignore these efforts. i will just give you one example. for the commission, if we were to undergo the council’s proposal to cut eur 19 million we would have to freeze 206 posts on top of a 4% staff reduction to be achieved by 2016. likewise, cuts to administrative support expenditure, research staff and executive agencies across all the headings would be extremely harmful for the proper implementation of programmes. let me conclude my statement with some elements regarding the process. in mid-october, the commission will present an amending letter containing an update for agriculture and the budgetary implication of the new package on migration which president juncker will announce tomorrow before this european parliament. we look forward to parliament’s reading and trust that by the end of the conciliation period we will find a common way ahead for the 2016 budget.
president of the council. madam president, i do not think that this is the time to enter into a substantive discussion of the council's proposal and the remarks made by the two rapporteurs, mr fernández and mr deprez, whom i thank, however, for their commitment and dynamism in defending the various appropriations. i would simply point out that the reductions made by the council were made in relation to the commission's proposals, which themselves constitute considerable increases on most of the points mentioned. i should like to say that, for example, in heading iv, we have payment appropriations which have increased by 22.45%. so when we talk about cuts, they are not cuts from the previous year's budget, but they are downward adjustments from amounts that are increasing considerably. but as i was saying, we are not going to go into the details of the negotiation today. i'm glad to hear i had some lyrical highs. i felt that i was extremely down to earth, but i will try to do better next time i am among you. i would simply like to emphasize that we will work hand in hand with you and listen very seriously to the proposals you are going to make. i would also like to add that i am reaching out to you for frank and constructive cooperation in order to reach a compromise which will be all the more difficult to find as we know very well that other expenditure is waiting for us because of worsening situations and unforeseen events. the commission's new package of measures on all migration issues will be presented tomorrow by commission president jean-claude juncker. it will not be done at zero cost. on the agricultural policy, as the commissioner has announced, there will also be means to mobilise. the budget will therefore be difficult to complete and i believe that the only assurance i can give you today is that we will play our cards right and try to find workable and responsible compromises in the interests of solidarity with the outside world and investment, employment and growth within the union.
in writing. the 2016 draft budget is a comprehensive proposal covering the key policy priorities, from stimulating investment, growth and job creation, to improving the collective capacity to address the migration challenge, to strengthening europe's position on the international stage. these are sound assumptions that meet the realities and needs. i think it is a good sign, for example, to increase funding for programmes related to culture and educational development, such as 'creative europe' or 'europe for citizens'. however, i do not share the council's view that the cutbacks to horizon 2020 should be separated from the main political priorities, such as the energy union project. the commission proposal leaves a margin of €2.1 billion in commitments and €1.6 billion in payments below the already restrictive ceilings of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. we are already experiencing the need for financial reserves. the current migration crisis, which has swept across europe, is a case in point. in addition, recent farmers' protests in response to market changes in the dairy sector have resulted in the commission granting a comprehensive package of €400 million to be used immediately. it's also a fund that's been raised from reserves. european society needs to be reassured that we are also prepared to deal with emergencies, especially now, in times of many crises that beset us.
in writing. the cultural and educational field remains a member state's competence. that's right, you're right. this is a way of better preserving cultural diversity and national heritage. however, it is important that the ep finds the time and means to support projects such as 'creative europe', 'europe for citizens' and 'erasmus+', amongst others. i welcome the increase in the 2016 budget for the abovementioned programmes compared to the previous year. however, as rapporteur for the committee on culture, education and sport, i would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are making up for the shortcomings of previous years. only now will we improve the ratio between current payments and already due liabilities. the lack of progress in funding new projects, especially pilot projects, and the still uncertain fate of such important activities as pan-european networks bringing together local and national broadcasters, are all dead. i mean, the euronetplus. we should aim to increase the stability of proven projects, improve the duration of guaranteed funding prospects and improve the funding of those projects that increase our knowledge of the state of culture in europe and its funding mechanisms.
thank you, madam president! poland doesn't have an immigration problem. poland has problems with immigrants who, as part of the implementation of the absurd dublin doctrine, are kept in concentration camps and they want to escape from poland to germany, austria and other countries. why would you do that? because in poland, the social security benefits are much lower. if we abolished social welfare, then people would not come to poland, or to all of europe, people who want to live on welfare. people who want to work are valuable. but they're sent back to the country, and we take in people who don't want to work. it's an absurd policy, flooding europe with human waste. let's be clear, the human scum who won't work. and america built its power by taking in immigrants who wanted to work because it didn't give them any benefits. and we are destroying europe. and this policy is the cause of the fall of europe. thank you for your attention.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. thank you very much, mr president! recent years have shown that the european union's cohesion policy has worked in the face of economic downturns. it has mitigated the effects of a sharp decline in public investment and has provided stability to the regions through the inflow of funds at a time when access to finance was difficult. cohesion policy funds accounted for almost 60% of public investment in the countries covered by the policy during the crisis. if we see the disparities between regions widening in recent years, we must also remember that they would be even greater if it were not for the structural funds. now that the economy is beginning to stabilise and grow again after a period of economic crisis, we must ensure that the structural funds are spent as efficiently and as fairly as possible. hence my appeal to all member states to implement cohesion policy efficiently at national level. with so much unemployment, especially among young people, every day of delay is a social loss. it is also important that the european commission tackles late payments. given that the costs of these delays are most acute for small and medium-sized enterprises, which generate the majority of new jobs, it is fair to say that every day of delay worsens the situation on the european labour market. thank you, sir.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs westphal on the report which expresses the views of parliament, but i would point out that the report ends with very specific comments and expectations towards the commission. in this report, the european parliament welcomes what has already been done in the past, as well as the issues raised in the report 'cities of tomorrow' and the actions taken on urban issues in 2014-2020, and welcomes the european commission's actions on the 'urban forum', regular meetings and so on. at the same time, however, it is also very clear in this report that we expect the declarations made by the european commission to be translated into action. this means, for example, that the case for urban innovation activities, i.e. 0,2% of the rdf, will be closed. we also expect some of the activities to be integrated. we have the feeling that smart cities, for example, are very much supported in the commission, but we don't see much of how this is coordinated with urban transport issues, urban environmental issues, urban social issues and so on. we are very concerned about the lack of coordination at the european commission level on the issue of cities. we expect this to be a city policy in the future, but what we need today is a clear and understandable message, not just the declarations of some commissioners.
madam president! cohesion policy remains the european union's main investment policy and the most effective instrument to date to help reduce regional disparities. it is now becoming a lifeline for the eu countries in crisis, as the european commission's recent bold proposals for special measures for greece show. the cohesion funds have prevented a drastic collapse in public investment. i would therefore like to stress, with reference to the sixth report, that cohesion policy must fulfil its role and lead to the eradication of poverty in the poorest regions of the union. it should also be financed at a level that ensures that it effectively supports infrastructure development, as well as entrepreneurship and investment in innovation, research and development, and the fight against unemployment and social exclusion. if we are talking about the future european urban agenda, particular attention should be paid to the choice of objectives and priorities, as well as to the ability of local governments to finance its objectives. the maximum involvement of local and regional authorities is needed in its preparation and implementation. i therefore encourage the european commission to support the development of platforms for the exchange of information and experience. (the speaker declined to answer the question raised by tibor shany's raising of the blue card)
madam president! paragraph 40 of the parliament's report on investing for growth and jobs in the european union states that additional solutions to improve youth employment performance should be sought. i understand that this creates the prospect of suggesting concrete solutions to the european commission. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the east of the union, my country, poland. its border regions, including the lublin region, are affected by a serious problem of unemployment. people are leaving there, heading for the western union countries. although they have been educated in lublin at many good universities, the situation forces them to emigrate. the european commission's support for the e40 waterway project could provide a new impetus. this would boost employment among young people and - as the report notes - support their integration into the local labour market. it would also encourage crossborder cooperation, as mentioned in paragraph 54 of the report we are discussing today.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! today's cohesion policy is a new reality and new challenges for local and regional authorities. these are also the new rules for allocating european funds, the thematic concentration allocated and determined by the union, which does not always coincide with the real needs of the region. the shift in the amount of financial support from infrastructure development to innovation limits the ability of the poorest regions to develop their basic infrastructure, namely high-speed roads. i would also point out that for the poorest regions, such as my region, podkarpacie, in poland with low competitiveness, the subsidiary nature of cohesion policy is very important and regional funds should not be used to fuel and guarantee new initiatives of the commission, as was the case with the cef. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her initiatives and for the various opinions she has recently expressed on the need to intensify the development of the carpathian region. i am referring to the carpathian strategy, the macro-regional strategy for this region. i think that these are very important words which you have spoken in many places, and you can count on the support of many members in this chamber, because we believe that the macro-regional strategy for the carpathian region is absolutely justified and should not be an obstacle to its development. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to reiterate what was said in this chamber by my predecessors. cohesion policy is europe's main investment policy, which has in recent years significantly mitigated the effects of the decline in public investment during the crisis. we're entering a new era of programming and we're facing new challenges that require an ambitious approach. the priority now must be to increase the efficiency of spending, especially in the weakest and poorest regions. i agree with the rapporteur that to do this we need to strengthen administrative capacity, especially at local level. cohesion policy instruments and programmes must be easily accessible to our citizens, and this will only be achieved if we work together to achieve maximum transparency and, above all, simplification of the rules. we must also strive to maintain sustainable development across regions. we also need a proper balance between the city and the surrounding area. we need to build polycentric structures, i think.
i wanted to raise two points which i think are important. the first issue is that we cannot focus too much on large cities in cohesion policy. union policies and measures should support whole functional urban areas, which include not only large cities but also municipalities and towns. there's another important thing. it's often the case that in big cities, people live anonymously. i think, therefore, that the union should support a variety of social, local and citizen initiatives. i think it would be worthwhile to consider whether the eu funds could not at least partially and at least symbolically support the local budgets that people want to receive directly. thank you, sir.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). thank you very much, madam president! i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased to refer to the excellent and very important report by mr eduard koukan, in which he talks about how important it is, how crucial it is to recognise active ageing as a very important challenge in europe. it is important for improving the quality of life of older people, but also for building a competitive, prosperous and sustainable europe. the european union has a common policy in this area, and this is one of our important tasks. it is very important that seniors are self-reliant, that they are economically independent, and that is why among these tasks, which are mentioned as more specific in the report, the prevention of digital exclusion and the prevention of the fall-out from the labour market of people over 50 years of age are rightly highlighted. i also welcome the fact that the report takes account of one of the most important problems in the european union, namely the thirty-nine per cent pension gap. the fact that the average european woman receives a pension almost 40% lower than the average european is a matter of shame and undoubtedly contributes to the fact that older women are much more likely than older men to be poor and to suffer poverty. the report also rightly emphasises the importance of social enterprises developing services for older people and rightly calls for the work on the european commission's document on the accessibility of transport and housing services and ict-based products for older people to be accelerated. i think that universal design can help here, and a wider introduction of common european legislation in this area would certainly help in terms of accessibility and mobility for those who already have health problems. the european commission's actions are also important. the aim is to provide recommendations to member states in the context of the european semester in the fields of employment, pensions, social inclusion and long-term care for the elderly. this is important for the direction and appreciation of seniority policy in the european union. thank you, sir.
thank you very much, madam president. the ageing of the european population is a fact and the statistics only confirm this trend. this situation therefore requires a change in the approach to older people, not only by raising awareness of their contribution to society and intergenerational solidarity, but also by taking concrete actions and allocating financial resources to ensure that this group is active in society for as long as possible and that their knowledge and skills are put to good use. i am pleased that the european commission has recognised poland's achievements in the field of elderly policy as one of the greatest in the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. i would like to express my appreciation to the creators and listeners of the universities of the third century, of which there are more than 520 in poland, because they become a platform for the activity of thousands of older people and enable them to take on challenges that they did not have a chance to face before. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. the european year of older persons was a well-deserved initiative to raise awareness of the problem of ageing. it was also a major impetus for some member states to address the issue of older people's activation and preparation for old age. the list of national projects presented in the report itself shows this very clearly. another positive development is the start of work on a europe-wide agreement on demographic change. the commission should provide funding for this initiative as it will be an important bottom-up move in the policy in question. unfortunately, the european year of older people's activity also comes to less positive conclusions. the very fact that only 4,500 people have officially signed up to his initiatives shows that there is little interest in the subject. add to this the small participation of civil society organisations and the private sector in this year's celebrations, and it is fair to say that it has served the union and its member states. it seems that not all actors are sufficiently aware of the importance of the problem of ageing populations. finally, i would like to point out that it is a mistake not to continue the grundtvig programme, which promoted volunteering for the elderly. if we want to activate older people, these are the initiatives that should be supported.
in writing. the report by eduard koukan on the european year of older persons and solidarity between generations rightly emphasises that the european union needs an integrated strategy to respond to demographic change. and this is not just about issues like the efficiency of pension systems or the need for health care. the new demographic situation requires innovative solutions, including the compensation of age-related skills gaps through the use of new technologies and the introduction of more flexible forms of employment. an important dimension is the quality of life of older people, the promotion of their active participation in all aspects of social and economic life and the promotion of cooperation, understanding and mutual respect between representatives of different generations. the enormous contribution of older people to society and the economy is still poorly understood. older people are a significant consumer group, driving the development of sectors such as tourism and health, care and rehabilitation services, and are stable, loyal employees with expertise and experience. i believe it is of great importance to make employers aware of the potential of older workers and to promote good practice in using it, including in the training of young people in the workplace. older people are also a huge number of volunteers and carers, and they help young families to balance work and childcare. without their support and commitment, the objective of rebuilding europe's economy and social capital is unlikely to be achieved.
mr president, the bilateral fisheries agreements, like the ones we are discussing right now, are beneficial features of the common fisheries policy. they are very important because they promote environmental sustainability, as on the one hand they allow the european fleet to access the surplus resources, and on the other hand they subject the vessels to the same rules of control and transparency. this not only leads to long—term resource conservation, but more than that it leads to good governance. this in itself is an added value, but i also personally appreciate the fact that the clauses concerning respect for human rights have been included in all protocols to those fisheries agreements. considering all this, i think we can fully support them.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 september 2015.
the next item is the report by mr wim van de campa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport (2015/2005 (ini)) (a8-0246/2015).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the creation of a single european transport area is a task that can only be met with a precise action plan setting out the objectives and milestones needed to achieve it. the 2011 transport white paper is ambitious in its role as such a plan. although only four years have passed since the adoption of the strategy, it is already clear that the implementation of the objectives set will be delayed. this is particularly true in the area of the implementation of overly ambitious and often unrealistic economic assumptions in the area of the move away from fossil fuels in transport. to avoid similar failures in other areas, we must take the opportunity of the white paper review to clearly identify those issues that require our increased efforts so that european integration in the transport sector takes on real shape. first, therefore, it is necessary to emphasise the particular importance of the projects forming the trans-european transport network for the construction of a coherent transport network in the union. the ten-t project is crucial for deepening european integration in the area of transport, including for increasing the transport accessibility of the peripheral areas of the european union. the construction of the ten-t network should be the top priority of our transport policy in the years to come. secondly, the white paper in its current form does not sufficiently address the issue of public transport and urban mobility, and the commitment to modern forms of travel based on the principles of the sharing economy. i believe that a document as important and strategic as the white paper cannot ignore such important issues. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's transport policy and its implementation in the member states. it is worrying that some member states are seeking to protect their own entrepreneurs at the expense of the fundamental economic freedoms of the union, by camouflaging such practices with social issues. such actions should not take place and i am glad that the report by mr van de camp has underlined the importance of balancing the free market with the protection of workers' rights. i am confident that the european commission will listen to this voice and take these and many other comments in this report into account when updating the white paper objectives and their implementation in the years ahead.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. transport is the foundation of any economy and the internal market cannot function properly without modern transport infrastructure and networks. a complete transformation of the transport sector to make it energy efficient, safe, competitive, efficient and interoperable is urgently needed today, especially as the latest statistics show that the demand for transport services will double in the coming years. i would like to congratulate mr van de campo very much on his excellent report, which covers a number of important transport issues. it is not a panacea for all the ills of the transport sector, but i believe that its recommendations are a very good basis for the preparation of specific legislation. however, i would like to draw attention to the term 'social dumping' which has been used very frequently in committee and in parliament recently. we all agree that transport service providers should be guaranteed adequate working conditions, including adequate remuneration, and that therefore actions to ensure fair competition in transport should be encouraged. however, this deadline cannot be used by some politicians as a justification for administrative restrictions on the access of carriers from other member states to transport in the country concerned. i think, however, that in view of the many irregularities reported, we should fight all abuses and pay attention to the introduction of better controls on compliance with the applicable rules on the performance of transport operations in the member states.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 september 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by antonio tajani, andreas schwab, evelyne gebhardt, dita charanzova and reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, on the next steps on new lines of action to improve the exercise of the liberal professions (o-000080/2015 - 2015/27(rsp) (b8-0569/2015).
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased that we are tackling this issue today, because free trade is of great importance not only in the labour market but also in society. in my view, the regulation of many professions and other regulated professions should be drastically reduced or, in most cases, even abolished. unfortunately, in general, the strong corporate lobby in the various professions exerts a huge and effective influence on politicians in the various member states, with the result that there is little deregulation in europe. in fact, i've even seen the opposite happen. excessive regulation, on the other hand, has many detrimental effects for example, it restricts access to the professions by new entrants, which has an impact on the unemployment rate among people with a degree in the profession. they also increase the cost of acquiring and then pursuing a profession. moreover, they increase the price of the services provided by limiting competition on the market for the profession concerned. appropriate action is therefore needed in this regard at union level and subsequently also in the member states. i hope that the european commission will take action in this direction.
i'm closing this discussion on that point.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by elissavet vozemberg, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women working professionally in science and universities and the glass ceiling problem [2014/2251 ((ini)) ] (a8-0235/2015).
i'm closing this discussion on that point. the vote will take place on 9 september 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by lilian rodrigues, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on empowering girls through education in the eu [2014/2250 (ini) ] (a8-0206/2015).
i'm closing this discussion on that point. the vote will take place on 9 september 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr president of the commission, mr president of the parliament! first of all, on behalf of the polish delegation to the epp, i would like to express my sincere condolences. mr president, the situation is dynamic, and i would like to say on behalf of the polish delegation that we are from a country whose parliamentarians are not from the moon, but from a specific country which has the eastern border of the union. thank you for mentioning that a tragic situation could also happen on the ukrainian side. that's what you said. the situation is so uncertain that it is not known what the next steps will be. we share your view that not only is relocation the solution, but also a holistic approach, a whole set of tools that must be used. the situation is so dynamic that we in poland, aware of the humanitarian catastrophe, are currently debating the possibility of increasing the number of refugees. the prime minister's proposal yesterday is to start the discussion with an increase, but we believe that control of the process should be in the hands of the individual states. one more thing. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. we are from a country and from countries where we understand very well what is happening and we want to be in solidarity with others, but we will not allow ourselves to be under pressure, possibly blackmailed with european money, because that is counterproductive. this would be contrary to the appropriate european action. we're in favor, but we'll discuss how we can help.
in writing. today there was a lot of important and wise talk about the unity of europe, about dignity and solidarity. jean-claude juncker said that his europe was a baker from the island of kos who gave bread to refugees for free, that his europe was students welcoming refugees. yes, this is my europe too. but europe is also a society for which this situation is new and full of fear. but there are also many in these societies who remember recent history, who know that only together can we overcome our challenges, who want a europe that is bold, united, strong, strongly united, who are proud to be european. so do not say, my fellow politicians from our part of europe, that europe is imposing something on us, because europe is us! let's focus on a good, shared, solidarity-based, christian response to the challenge of refugees.
mr. chairman, please! major conflicts on the borders of the european union in any case have a security and humanitarian component, including migration. putin's neo-imperial policies have already caused economic migration and political refugees for many years, which have been largely absorbed by poland and other countries in my region. we have shown solidarity and we will continue to do so. as regards the security of our southern borders, i welcome the high representative's statement on the second phase of the naval operation and diplomatic offensive. however, the forced relocation mechanism envisaged in the communication is a non-treaty solution, unacceptable and counterproductive. i think the european union should make the most of its internal possibilities, its possibilities of solidarity within the union.
mr president, it cannot be that we only see the problem of migration in southern europe and do not see what is happening in eastern europe. we all know that in the border area between donbas and russia, more than 1.5 million people fear for their lives. their lives, the lives and health of their children are no less at risk than those fleeing syria. poland has a very conscious policy in this area, welcoming almost a million ukrainians a year and issuing them appropriate temporary visas. already this year, over half a million temporary visas have been issued. and it is really important that now the poles also open up to accept these migrants from the south, but also on such terms that will help us to receive them with dignity.
in writing. the eu's migration policy should be long-term, comprehensive and coherent. it should use the full range of tools developed in the global approach to migration and mobility. the implementation of commitments and actions already undertaken needs to be improved. it is not possible to limit oneself to the number of refugees accepted, because the concept of automatic allocation of refugees is a bad solution, which means that the member state loses control over the number of arrivals, as well as over the process of accepting them from a security point of view. as an eu border country, poland is facing an influx of refugees from across its eastern border and the mass issuance of visas and work permits to ukrainian citizens. in the first half of this year alone, my country spent over half a million. due to the conflict in ukraine, the group of internally displaced persons there is over 1.5 million. this group potentially increases the migratory pressure on the eu's eastern border if the situation deteriorates. any responsible solution at european level must also take this fact into account. but i think that any action we take in europe on the refugee problem is doomed to failure. the problem must be solved at the source, in the countries from which they are fleeing.
in writing. no one can remain indifferent to the situation. every day we hear of new, dramatic attempts to reach europe. these are shocking images. the need to resolve this drama presents the european union with a particularly urgent challenge. this is confirmed by frontex data from january and february of this year. in the meantime, the number of migrants in 2014 increased significantly compared to 2013: the central mediterranean route by 42%, the eastern mediterranean route by 107%, the western balkan route by 990%. the largest group of asylum seekers in the eu in the first quarter were not syrians, accounting for 16%, but mainly people from the balkans: kosovo, albania and serbia. frontex predicts that next year this number could double to about 2.5 million people. the solidarity we should show migrants cannot be based on mutual appeals to order or blame, which undermine the effectiveness of action by building internal conflicts. this is why it is so important to develop a good strategy, including: increasing bilateral aid and aid programmes, with particular attention to transit and origin countries; stepping up action to combat trafficking and smuggling networks; effective control and protection of the european union's external borders; and stepping up cooperation with the international community, in particular the un, the african union and the league of arab states.
in writing. ‒ action is needed to further liberalise international trade, as it brings significant benefits to all parties involved. the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement is a good example of this. that's why i voted to accept it.
in writing. ‒ the protocol concerns the ratification of the trade facilitation agreement, which has been agreed by the ep's committee on international trade. studies and analyses carried out in the run-up to the wto's adoption of the agreement show that its implementation will bring more than eur 100 billion to the world economy and reduce the cost of trade by 12.5-17.5%. the adoption of the agreement could bring significant benefits not only to developing countries but also to eu member states and the union itself, leading to a multilateral trading system. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention was adopted by a diplomatic conference jointly organised by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission, in cooperation with the un economic commission for europe. it entered into force on 1 april 2005 and aims to harmonise contractual and navigational standards on inland waterways in european countries. the convention contains provisions concerning the choice of the parties' right to contract for the carriage covered by the convention. poland has expressed its interest in acceding to the budapest convention on several occasions. poland is keen to see a council decision as soon as possible, which will enable it to become bound by the budapest convention, something poland has been seeking for several years. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the asylum crisis in italy and greece and the launch of a system for relocating persons in need of and seeking international protection to other member states. the application requested the transfer of approximately 40% of all persons who entered the eu illegally to greece and italy in 2014. i don't think the forced relocation system is a good idea. a better solution would be to build trust and a lasting system based on the principle of voluntary participation by other member states. rather, such large migrations should be prevented by establishing stability in the region, cooperation with third countries, an effective return system and strong sanctions for trafficking in human beings. more frequent checks should be carried out in greece and italy and a system should be established to predict at which border the increased migration flows will occur. i therefore voted in favour of rejecting the proposal to introduce a relocation scheme.
in writing. ‒ better coordination of eu policies and instruments with the urban dimension, introduction of territorial impact assessments for new legislation and implementation of a multi-level governance model and partnership principle are elements that can facilitate greater coherence of urban policy strategies in the future. sensitizing policy decisions to urban issues, mapping the problems and challenges facing cities, and developing common solutions within the urban agenda can contribute to improving the quality of life of residents not only of metropolitan areas but also of small and medium-sized urban centres. noting the reservations about the choice of objectives and priorities, and the ability of local governments to finance the agenda's objectives, i decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ the document adopted by the european parliament not only supports the urban agenda proposed by the commission, but also goes one step further by proposing that it should eventually become an urban policy of the union. the document also calls on the european commission to better coordinate eu policies and instruments with the urban dimension, to introduce territorial impact assessments for new legislation and to implement a multi-level governance model and the principle of partnership. if the european commission takes the proposals put forward by the european parliament into account, our cities can benefit from a completely different quality and additional support, which is why i decided to vote in favour of the document on the urban dimension of the union's policy.
in writing. ‒ managing urban areas requires the coordination of many activities and the consideration of many different infrastructural and social needs. the effective use of structural funds and the implementation of cohesion policy in urban areas is therefore impossible without the creation of an action programme that comprehensively identifies the needs of small and large agglomerations. it is therefore obvious that support is being given to the idea of an urban agenda, which will be the backbone of the eu's policy towards urbanised areas. cities are the driving force of the economy, generate the majority of european gdp, and are centres of education and science. this leading role of cities is also associated with a number of problems, such as high population density, transport difficulties, high levels of pollution emitted into the atmosphere and large disparities in the living standards of the population. the urban dimension of eu policy should take these aspects into account and take into account local and regional specificities, which can best be understood by giving a decisive voice to local authorities in the formulation of objectives. we should use all the financial instruments available, both those already in place, such as horizon 2020, and those that are being created, such as the european fund for strategic investments, to make cities as welcoming as possible, including for residents with special needs elderly or disabled people. i support the idea of creating such a comprehensive plan, which is why i voted for this report.
thank you very much. thank you. we are debating the role of the european union and its involvement in the middle east. the measurable effects of this policy are seen in the ever-increasing number of refugees and asylum seekers from this region of the world. it must be said clearly that the european union has not only failed in this policy, but has also failed. we should have been more active and cooperative earlier, for example with the united states, because the lack of effective external action is a hiccup. if the european commission's response to the wave of refugees is to open up a legal channel for their flow to europe so that all asylum seekers can work in europe from day one, as the president of the commission said today in the european parliament, how does that compare with the fact that he has just said that 23 million people are currently unemployed in the european union? this is unacceptable and that is why we need a stronger commitment from the union to refugees, but on the ground, in cooperation with neighbouring countries. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much. as i said in my speech, i want to emphasize again that some of these people are refugees, and some of those who come in this group are people who claim to be refugees, and among them there will certainly be terrorists. that is why this is such a major problem both for the united kingdom, as you have said, and for the other member states, including poland, where i come from.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. belarus is free of political prisoners, i don't know for how long, but it's a fact. anyone who disregards that fact disregards the emotions of their families. i warn you against that. but anyone who overestimates this fact also makes another mistake first of all lack of context analysis. we should not have illusions or excessive expectations, or we will make the mistake of political naivety. the fact is that in the current situation of challenges to stability in the region, it is in our common interest to find a way to normalize relations between the european union and belarus. realism combined with a lack of compromise on the basic, fundamental elements of european values is also the most important thing for any openings and new proposals for economic cooperation. the most important time will undoubtedly come immediately after the elections in belarus. these, observed by an increased number of observers, and the period afterwards, will serve as a basis for any further steps on the list of 29 actions prepared by, inter alia, the high representative. it is important that any financial contribution from europe is linked to privatisation processes, including changes in business practices and macroeconomic reforms. the integration of education into the bologna system and the improvement of phytosanitary controls in the field of foodstuffs testing are to be appreciated. but this is only the beginning of what we're going to do. the resolution, which had to pass a vote at the beginning of this part-session to be approved, was, in the next phase, much more modest and was, in principle, unanimous.i would now like to thank the entire delegation of the european parliament to belarus for their work during the first mission in minsk, as well as the other people who work in other committees and support my work mr sandrze kalniete, mrs heidi hautala and mr jaromír štětin. thank you very much, because all of these efforts are better and more efficient because of their collaboration.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the first common interest of the european union should be the independence and security of our countries, and this requires - first and foremost in the east, on the eastern borders of the union - the consolidation of the independence of the states that emerged to the east of us and the consolidation of the geopolitical changes that have occurred since the collapse of the soviet union. and this makes the issue of establishing the independence and identity of the new belarusian state a priority. the belarusian authorities should be judged on their concrete results, on their independence in foreign policy, on the increase in political freedom, on the freedom of activity of non-governmental organisations, on the development of religious life, in short, on the de-sovietisation. and as for the elections, the upcoming presidential elections, i appeal to you to observe not only the course of the electoral act itself, but the entire election, that is, the election campaign. the belarusian authorities should also know that the freedom of expression of the candidates of the opposition parties will be of crucial importance for our assessment. but of course we have to look ahead to the next elections that will follow the presidential, that is, the more distant parliamentary elections. and here the main criterion in assessing the situation in belarus should be simply the appearance of the opposition in parliament. and we're waiting for that.
madam president! i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to do this. ladies and gentlemen! nikolai statkievich, nikolai dziadok, igor olinievich, yuri rubtsov, yevgeny vaskovich, artiom prokopienko are the names of political prisoners who served their sentences in belarusian prisons under various pretexts. nikolai statkiewicz, the opposition candidate for president, served five years of a six-year sentence. to this group should be added alesia michalewicz, who two days ago, returning after several years of exile, was arrested and fortunately released the same day. it is undoubtedly a breakthrough that political prisoners have been released, but we also know that they have not been rehabilitated. they're free, but they're not free. they're under constant police surveillance, their civil rights are limited. some in this room remember what happened after the last election in belarus, when many opposition activists were arrested or re-arrested shortly after what seemed like the normalization of relations with the european union. nobody wants another repeat of that story and another game of pretend. and although there are clear signs of a cooling off (because both the release of political prisoners and, until recently, the first official visit of the european parliament delegation to belarus in many years with an official agenda of meetings with both the government and the senate, as well as representatives of civil society and the opposition, are evidence of a cooling off), this will not automatically trigger a return to normalization of relations between the union and belarus. further steps are needed achievable. it is necessary to build the bridges that the high representative has spoken of. and yet, potential cooperation between the european union and belarus would be beneficial for both sides, and the conditions set by the european union do not require money, but a political decision, greater openness in the key area for the european union of respect for human and civil rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that on the day of the state of the union address by the president of the european commission, we have the opportunity to have a comprehensive discussion on the labour market and employment in europe. i am convinced, as jean-claude juncker was, that the economic crisis will end when we achieve full employment. today, decisive action and bold, thoughtful structural reforms in the labour market are needed to clearly improve efficiency and safety. i have recently had the pleasure of working with martina dlabajeva and colleagues from the political groups on a very good report by the employment committee on the need to adapt workers' skills and qualifications to labour market needs. if we want to have a competitive labour market in europe in the 21st century, we must first of all teach young people entering the workforce to take responsibility for their own decisions and prepare them for the need for continuous education and retraining. despite high unemployment, too often entrepreneurs are unable to find a candidate with the right experience and skills. this continues to indicate that the curricula are not adequately adapted to the requirements of employers. concrete action is needed in this area immediately. efficient cooperation between universities, enterprises and public and private employment services, as well as between workers themselves, must become standard practice. in addition, there is a need to continuously monitor future trends in labour markets and anticipate the demand for skills and qualifications. there is a need to provide incentives for smes so that entrepreneurs are willing to invest profits in training for their employees. these and other valuable recommendations are contained in the report on which we shall be voting tomorrow. the group of the european people's party is determined to combat inequalities in the labour market, unfair abuse and circumvention of european legislation to lower social standards. we're for the responsible use of fixed-term contracts, the institution of self-employment. these are instruments which should not be abused to reduce labour costs. it should be borne in mind that they are essential for flexible labour markets. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. i would like to start by congratulating my colleagues lope fontagné and dlabajová on the thorough and comprehensive reports they have produced and thank them for their openness and willingness to cooperate. the economic and financial crisis has taught us a painful lesson. it clearly shows the crucial importance of building a cohesive, inclusive society in which everyone has a role to play and in which the potential of every citizen is developed, valued and supported, regardless of gender, age, disability or education. in rebuilding the european economy, we must strive to restore citizens' trust in public institutions and build social capital. to achieve this ambitious goal, a strategic partnership between the public sector, educational institutions, business and ngos is needed. better preparation of young people for the labour market requires changes in the education system, in particular the introduction of a dual model and entrepreneurship education. as mrs šojdrová emphasised yesterday when she presented her report, entrepreneurship is the ability to put ideas into practice, and entrepreneurship education unlocks creativity, initiative, innovation, independent thinking and many other qualities that are important in the professional, social and civic spheres. i also fully support the rapporteurs' demands to remove the barriers to the development of the social and solidarity-based economy and to promote this important sector with its enormous economic, social and innovation potential.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the european labour market is currently facing a number of problems, including skills mismatches and low labour mobility in the european union, which means that despite 25 million unemployed, there are still 2 million job vacancies in the union. statistics illustrating the details of this phenomenon are pooled, collected and analysed at regional level, whereas meta-analyses providing a pan-european picture are needed to develop a coherent eu policy in this area. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. the main barriers to mobility for europeans identified in the survey are, paradoxically, the lack or poor knowledge of foreign languages, cultural differences, lack of guaranteed housing and complex administrative procedures. these can be used to develop the necessary conditions for modifying existing programmes to combat unemployment, such as eures. to increase mobility, clear procedures for recognising qualifications of citizens from different eu countries, emphasis on foreign language training and further training and training to improve intercultural communication are also needed. the adaptation of skills to market needs requires changes in the education system, in particular the rehabilitation of vocational training, close cooperation between schools and the labour market, the promotion of dual education at all levels of education, including social and humanities subjects, and a meaningful programme of vocational traineeships and the presence of professionals in higher education. many eu countries have positive experiences in the above areas, for example germany in dual education and school-market cooperation, so it is worthwhile to take advantage of and draw inspiration from these systems that are producing good results. they are based on the cooperation of schools not only with large workplaces but also with the craftsmen's communities and small family businesses that are the pillars of the european economy.
mr. chairman, please! work is the highest good of man. its availability is more important than any other human need. a person's life and health and the development of his family depend on his work. the member states and the european union should work towards the best and most effective solutions that offer the chance of creating new jobs. it's connected to a lot of different activities. on the one hand, entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the largest source of jobs and the most flexible in adapting to the situation, should be supported. without encouraging entrepreneurship, without reducing financial costs and red tape, it is impossible to increase the number of new jobs effectively. on the other hand, we should increase the mobility of society in europe, especially young people, because mobility is one of the conditions for responding to the needs of the labour market, also in the international dimension, and not just at local, regional or national level. and most importantly, we need to support and modernise education, including vocational education. it needs to be upgraded and adapted to the requirements of the modern knowledge-based economy. practical vocational training and the planning of educational development strategies must be subordinated to the future needs of the labour market, not just to the present ones. today, in many lands, we face a paradoxical situation. on the one hand, there is a significant demand for workers on the economic side and on the other hand, there is a shortage of skilled workers. this harmful paradox of the european labour market must be eliminated.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to social entrepreneurship. it plays an undeniably positive role in the economy. strong roots and a good knowledge of local social and economic realities make these enterprises better able to respond to regional challenges and thus contribute to greater social and economic cohesion. unfortunately, despite the generally favourable climate around social enterprises, there is still a lack of awareness of them both among decision-makers at all levels and the general public . i agree with the rapporteur that we need more education on social entrepreneurship, both in schools and through social campaigns and training for adults. it should also be ensured that such undertakings receive administrative support and have access to finance. we already have instruments in cohesion policy that these companies can use. it is important that they are aware of these opportunities and are given appropriate support during application and implementation. i'm convinced that this will benefit our entire economy.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 september 2015. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the creation of a european labour market requires that several interrelated processes be developed in parallel. the first is to achieve a european economy while at the same time ensuring an innovative level of production. the second concerns the proper treatment of science and research and development by member state governments. appropriate expenditure on learning and stimulation of research and development through appropriate tax systems is necessary. the right educational process, with a view to ensuring the full range of theoretical knowledge and providing training and practical experience, is of great importance for the development of the labour market. i also stress the importance of a dual training system which, by combining theory and practice, allows the development of competences corresponding to the needs of the labour market and thus promotes its smooth development. finally, developing the right skills for workers needed in the european labour market requires investment in education. more synergies between countries and european programmes aimed at developing the labour market and improving the skills of workers are also needed.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the stability of healthcare systems in europe: the challenges ahead.
i close the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. fellow workers! one of the reasons why the european parliament looks at the implementation of european law in the member states every year is to see if there has been an improvement, if it is getting better, or if there are still a lot of problems. statistics say it's better, but statistics are just statistics. we continue to see many areas where the transposition of eu law into national legal systems is, firstly, delayed and, secondly, ineffective and lacks transparency. the problem is that too often the member states apply a kind of legislative overlay, preparing an additional web of different legislative restrictions compared to what has been prepared at community level. this makes the law less readable to those who are supposed to benefit from it: citizens, businesses operating in the european union, and we must counteract this. it seems that the most important element here is not the timeliness but the quality of the transposition. it should be the most important objective we are pursuing, and i therefore fully support mr chrysogonos, who says that special attention should be paid to the question of the functioning of small and mediumsized enterprises when we are talking about the legislative process. i also support his view that there should be better cooperation between the european institutions at all stages of the legislative process, at the pre-legislative stage, at the legislative stage itself, but also later when we evaluate it. we should also work more closely with national parliaments to prepare them for the proper transposition of european law.
in writing. human trafficking is a shameful phenomenon and, regardless of country, continent, religion or culture, it must not only be prohibited but also effectively combated. this phenomenon is particularly disturbing when it involves minors and women. efforts by the member states and the european union are failing to achieve the desired effect of eliminating this criminal practice in europe. i therefore expect the european commission to assess the implementation by member states of directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims, and to draw conclusions from the functioning and implementation of the european union strategy to eradicate trafficking in human beings 2012-2016.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i don't have a yellow ribbon. it's not a coincidence, because i want to put it on now as an expression of my solidarity, of my people, of the polish people, for our estonian neighbor. the american writer ernest hemingway said, "don't ask for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for you". and that's exactly the case with our neighbors who are being held captive by the russians. i have been in the european parliament for eleven years. what is this debate about human rights abuses in russia? another one, another one, another one. we have to show very clearly that russia does not respect certain european standards, european values. and it cannot be that economic considerations, business considerations determine our policy towards russia. let us remember that europe is strong in the values of human rights that we defend, and let us defend them in this situation as well.
mr. chairman, please! our focus today is primarily on the refugee issue, and unfortunately, in this context, we increasingly look to russia as an ally to help solve the middle east crisis. president juncker said nothing in his speech yesterday about the union's relations with russia or the human rights situation in russia. he didn't say much about ukraine. meanwhile, the fate of eston kohver, oleg sentsov and alexander kolchenko shows that russia disregards international law, that it is guided by the principle of revenge, that it disregards the sovereignty of other countries, that it has no regard for human rights. kohver is an estonian citizen, sentsov and kolchenko are ukrainian citizens all of them were transported to russia in violation of international law abducted and tried according to russian law. they've been denied access to the consulates. all three were sentenced to long prison terms. we cannot tolerate this kind of behaviour and we must consistently condemn it and, moreover, we must also consider concrete steps to prevent this kind of behaviour.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i've been listening to this debate, and i can see that we're all in agreement on the facts. it is the utmost insolence on the part of russia to kidnap a citizen of the european union and to convict mr kolchenko and mr sentsov in a farcical trial. yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is the ultimate insolence. we are appealing, and rightly so, only that the language of the appeal is understandable to the societies of the european union, but it is not understandable in russia, and that is why i am calling not only on the european commission, but above all on the states of the european union to take retaliatory action. well, then, we won't find a single russian spy on the territory of the european union? yes, we can find him, we can arrest him, and we have to do that, because russia only understands the language that it speaks.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: angola is a country with significant natural resources and great potential, but after three decades of bad government by president dos santos, it is a place where human rights are violated, people are intimidated, and corruption and impunity for power are commonplace. after the victory of the popular movement for the liberation of angola in the 2012 parliamentary elections, the repression against journalists and social activists has intensified, as evidenced by the successive trials and arrests of arão buli temp, josé marcosa mavungi and rafael marquesa. it should be emphasized that both the truth of the charges and the right to a fair trial in this country are fictions. the authorities have brutally suppressed peaceful anti-government protests, made arrests, and used torture in prisons. the abuse by the dos santos government should be strongly condemned and the authorities should be called upon to respect the cotonou agreement and ratify the implementation of the four human rights treaties signed by angola in september 2013, including the convention against torture.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. president aliyev's country today has twice as many political prisoners as russia and belarus combined. and the conditions in which these dissidents are sitting there, you've heard from my predecessors. president aliyev is not doing anything about his international obligations and is in flagrant violation of the european convention on human rights. it requires us to speak out, it requires us to act decisively! i remember well that when we in the countries ruled by communist dictatorships in the 1970s and 1980s fought against those governments which took away our freedom, it was the strong words, the commitment of this very house of parliament that gave us hope and encouragement. today i regret very much that my political group did not sign the joint resolution on azerbaijan, because human rights is not a matter of party politics. in the name of solidarity with the persecuted in azerbaijan, i ask you to vote in favour of this resolution.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the eastern partnership is very important for the european union, because it not only extends the eu's influence to countries to the east of us, but above all brings them closer to us. however, some of us feel that the eastern partnership is an audience from which others can be taught. well, we're not here to teach them, we're here to bring them together, we're here to attract them. of course, you can have reservations about some things that happen in azerbaijan, but, ladies and gentlemen, let's not lecture! let's remember that the verb is docent. true, but an example of a thief!
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on investing in growth and jobs and promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. modernising and strengthening cohesion policy will further reduce disparities between regions and contribute to the union's objectives of employment and training growth. cohesion policy should focus more on the regeneration of eu industry, innovation, employment, training and support for entrepreneurship. we need new initiatives to tackle youth unemployment and new quality jobs. in this context, we should link the fight against unemployment with the digital agenda, the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020. in addition, the role of education and training should be strengthened, with particular attention to ensuring equal access to and quality of education and promoting lifelong learning, vocational training and dual education.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is still the eu's main investment policy, also in the 2014-2020 budget. cohesion investments have undoubtedly helped to mitigate some of the effects of the crisis, providing a significant share of public investment in some member states. the main objective of this policy remains to reduce disparities between regions and to eradicate poverty in the poorest regions of the eu. in this context, and noting the objection to the ec's imposition of thematic concentration, limits and macroeconomic conditionality, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ if we want to have a competitive labour market in europe in the 21st century, we need to manage both supply and demand policies for employment. it is important that young people entering the labour market have the right qualifications and are aware of the need for continuous training or retraining. the european parliament's report focuses on increasing the competitiveness of the eu labour market, inter alia, through efficient cooperation between universities, enterprises, public and private employment services and workers, and by continuously monitoring future trends in labour markets and forecasting the demand for skills and qualifications. i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i believe that it properly highlights the problems and seeks solutions to them.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! increasing life expectancy is one of the greatest achievements of mankind, but it is accompanied by greater social demands and the need for additional public services. the ageing of europe's population is a challenge for public budgets, but it also represents a great asset of experience and potential mentorship for the new generation. however, i would like to draw attention to a very important part of the report, namely the well-being of older people in a digital society. more and more services are available on the internet. more and more jobs are being created with the digitalisation of societies in mind. however, according to the european digital agenda scoreboard, only 20% of people over 55 have sufficient digital skills and 41% of people over 55 have never used the internet. this is related to the difficulty of accessing training and the lack of assistance in vocational retraining. these two factors should be the focus of further action if we want older people to be active participants in the labour market and not be digitally excluded. i congratulate the rapporteur on a well-written report and am pleased that the objectives of the european year of older persons and solidarity between generations for 2012 have been successfully implemented in many senior communities.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the evaluation of the 2012 european year for older persons and intergenerational solidarity, i would like to draw attention to the need to continue initiatives and programmes on active ageing and to increase their targeting at local and regional level. the need for this type of action is demonstrated by the large number of people willing to take advantage of this type of opportunity. for example, in my region, i regularly organise training for the elderly, which is very popular. in addition, action should be taken to improve intergenerational dialogue so that younger generations learn from the experiences of older generations, whose contributions and knowledge are duly recognised and exploited. in the context of demographic change and the ageing of european society, we must also ensure that we create a social and economic environment that is favourable to older people. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings. following today's resolution, i hope that the commission will propose new initiatives to combat unemployment among people over 50 and, in cooperation with the member states, to propose solutions to make older people more attractive to employ.
in writing. ‒ 2012 was the european year of older persons and solidarity between generations. it was designed to facilitate the creation of a culture of active ageing in europe. i support the concept of active ageing (with one caveat: it must be voluntary, i.e. older people cannot be forced to continue working). that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ 2012 was declared the 'european year of older people's activity and solidarity between generations' with the aim of facilitating the creation of a culture of activity among older people in europe, based on the principle of a society open to all age groups. the document voted on was intended not only to assess the european year 2012 but also to present concrete recommendations for the elimination of age discrimination, especially in relation to the labour market. i believe that in an ageing european union, it is necessary to promote a 'silver economy', one that sees older people as an opportunity rather than a threat. i therefore voted in favour of the evaluation document for the european year of older people.
in writing. ‒ mr van de camp's report reflects many of the assessments, proposals and conclusions made by the parliament's committee on transport and tourism. the white paper on transport requires substantial revision, change and adaptation to the new reality, especially as we are after difficult economic years in many member states. the financial perspective 2007-13 brought significant changes to the state of infrastructure in the new member states. however, we are still a long way from the vision of a single european transport area and a coherent infrastructure. the ten-t has not yet been developed satisfactorily, which would imply interoperability, the development of intelligent transport systems, safety on roads, railways and in the air. increasing transport efficiency, infrastructure charges, the role of public, mass transit are other important areas where we are making changes. drones and their rules of operation are a new technology, and i welcome the proposal to regulate them. the cef is an important new financial instrument which, when combined with the juncker plan, creates new opportunities; a prudent implementation policy by the commission is needed. in view of the above, i support this report, although i still have reservations about the european commission's conduct with regard to the german minimum wage law for car and bus drivers.
in writing. ‒ emphasising the need to eliminate disparities in the level of infrastructure development and maintenance, in particular between the eastern and western parts of the european union, and to develop a european transport policy and a free market in transport services, i supported the white paper review report. however, the report also addresses several issues, such as decarbonisation, a costly commitment to reduce emissions, reducing transport's dependence on fossil fuels, the creation of a european road transport agency, which directly threaten the polish economy and which i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's white paper on the implementation of the transport white paper outlines an ambitious strategy for future action to promote a competitive transport system, aimed at increasing mobility, removing existing barriers and reducing pollution from this sector of the economy. despite the very good intentions of the document, many of the demands contain difficult targets, such as a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 2030, or a doubling of the use of public transport in urban areas by 2030, or even harmful demands that are completely detached from the realities of doing business, such as the introduction of a weekly rest for people employed in the transport sector. the european union should create a law that is not over-regulated and that is rational in its approach to the challenges of the present day, which is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i would like to point out that in 2011 the european commission set transport targets up to 2050. the objectives are clear: increase transport mobility, eliminate transport barriers, reduce carbon emissions. the problem is that in practice, the disparities between modes of transport have been increasing in europe over the last few years. the scale of road and air transport is increasing, which increases congestion and degrades the environment. this trend should be mitigated by allocating relatively more resources and energy to the potential of rail, short sea shipping and inland waterways. only then can we talk about more sustainable development, greater mobility and better protection of natural resources.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport is a necessary and important document. no major work can be done without a plan, and a task as complex and time-consuming as the construction of a tightly integrated european transport network requires a specific plan. it is clear that such a document needs to be updated frequently and the objectives formulated modified and adjusted as work progresses, so that the strategy does not function only on paper. in the white paper of four years ago, many objectives were formulated in too abstract a way, as is clearly shown at the stage of the present review. the assumptions made in 2011 to move away from fossil fuels have not only not been met, but their consumption has also increased slightly. there is no better proof that climate policy cannot be constructed in isolation from economic realities and consumer preferences. the white paper also needs to be revised in other areas. modern and electrified urban transport, the needs of pedestrians and cyclists in building transport infrastructure, the particular importance of the ten-t network in the context of the creation of the efsi, the protection of the free market and entrepreneurs in the road transport sector, unfair competition from asian airlines and the sharing economy - these issues need to be better highlighted in the white paper and are addressed in the tran report. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ women represent more than 60% of graduates in the european union and almost half of doctoral students. however, the higher up the university hierarchy, the lower the presence of women - for example, only about 20% of women are senior academics, and their share in university board positions is similar. women in academia are disproportionately more likely to encounter barriers in the form of stereotypes and prejudices about their academic potential, which together create a glass ceiling blocking access to the highest positions. despite their high competence at the start of their careers, women are much more likely to drop out of the later stages of their careers, also because of the disproportionately higher burden of caring responsibilities than men. i voted in favour of the 'report on women working in science and universities and the glass ceiling problem' because it recognises the barriers to women pursuing scientific careers and the need for institutional and cultural change to overcome them. only breaking the glass ceiling will guarantee women the right to realise their potential on the basis of equal opportunities and the full use of women's talents and competences in science and innovation.
in writing. ‒ while one can agree with the report's general recommendations to encourage greater involvement of women in science, the report nevertheless refers to the istanbul convention and recognises the harmful role of stereotypes about traditional family roles. that is why i did not support the report in its entirety and abstained.
in writing. ‒ given that gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union, all efforts should be made to combat existing discrimination against women in science. the european parliament document points out that women are still under-represented in most science, engineering and management positions, which, in addition to the social and moral dimension, has economic significance, as science is of fundamental importance to europe and requires more and more teams capable of, among other things, conducting ground-breaking research essential to enhancing the eu's productivity and competitiveness. the ep document, in addition to outlining the problems, sets out actions that member states and the european commission should take to change the current situation, such as incentives for research centres, removing cultural barriers or establishing a european parliament prize for 'women in european science'. i therefore voted in favour of the report on women in science and universities. however, i would like to stress that i believe that in order to achieve equality between women and men, action must be taken in a variety of fields and sectors of their activity, and not just in one, namely science.
in writing. ‒ the report goes far beyond the remit of the femm committee. the title of the report indicates that it concerns education, an area in which the european parliament does not have the necessary powers; moreover, the report recommends changes to the curricula in the member states. the report also called on the commission to initiate the process of eu accession to the istanbul convention. member states were also invited to take such action. for these reasons i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ empowering girls and other equality activities are of great importance to the european union as an organisation based on non-discrimination of people on grounds of gender, age, ethnicity or nationality. however, despite its very legitimate aims, the document contains many proposals which are impossible to implement and which significantly interfere with the exclusive competence of the member states, including in the field of education. too often, though, solutions that are presented in the name of noble goals but are pursued in an unwise way are counterproductive. so one-sided statements and goals and arguments must be avoided. for these reasons too, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ european countries such as switzerland, norway, iceland, liechtenstein, monaco, san marino, andorra are very important partners of the european union, which is why it is so important to continuously monitor their mutual relations and to eliminate existing problems. relations between the union and the aforementioned countries go beyond economic integration and the expansion of the single market, they also contribute to increasing stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses. the report prepared by parliament indicates that there are still problems in relations between the partners, particularly with regard to the transposition of eu legislation, but also with regard to internal national policies on migration or transport which are incompatible with eu policy. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the ep report because it adequately outlines the problems that exist and points to the action that the commission should take to remedy these problems.
in writing. ‒ the challenges facing the union have never been so serious and urgent as they are today. the greek and migration crises, the fight against terrorism and the security of europe need an immediate and comprehensive remedy. since the beginning of the year, almost half a million people have crossed into the eu. despite the increase in frontex's budget in 2015 by an additional eur 13,7 million, it has become clear that the union is not able to cope with migrants and is not able to effectively protect its borders or to resolve in solidarity the problem of hundreds of thousands of migrants clustered in refugee camps on its territory. the new ec proposals for managing migration flows and their relocation, backed by a single asylum policy for all member states, supported by the principle of safe countries and legal migration routes to the eu, deserve support. it is also reasonable to allow refugees to apply for asylum from outside the european union. we have repeatedly said in parliament's resolutions that the eu must fulfil its role as a promoter of peace and democracy, but the european community as an economic organisation has limited economic tools at its disposal. without a real eu foreign policy based on the community method, the mediterranean refugee exodus cannot be counteracted, nor can the conflicts that cause it be resolved.
in writing. ‒ supporting refugees is both a legal and a moral obligation for eu countries. but the problem of migration cannot be solved by reacting to its effects alone; the causes must also be addressed. so in addition to supporting actual refugees, we also need to be able to identify non-refugees from the incoming groups. economic migrants are not entitled to the same support as refugees. the union and the member states should establish an effective system for returning such persons to their countries of origin. nevertheless, radical action should be taken against the exploitation of human tragedy by organised crime groups. however, all action will only have a positive effect if there is greater security in the countries from which citizens flee to europe. the union should therefore verify the effectiveness of existing forms of aid to developing countries. unfortunately, parliament's resolution did not address these challenges. it also proposed an automatic mechanism for allocating refugees to individual member states, which was unacceptable to many countries. it should be borne in mind that each country in the union has different levels of economic development and economic and infrastructural capacity, and should therefore have the right to determine the number of refugees it is able to assist. for these reasons, i abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, should be the guarantor of the application of community law. to achieve this in practice, it is necessary to further improve the transposition of the law in the member states and to ensure that it is properly respected. in 2013, the court of justice delivered 52 judgments under article 258 tfeu, 31 of which were unfavourable to the member states. as in previous years, the most frequent failures related to environmental protection, health and consumer protection, the internal market, services and transport. the complaints in the field of justice mainly concerned freedom of movement, which is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the union enshrined in the treaty. it should be borne in mind that delays and irregularities in transposition and the incorrect application of eu law lead to inconsistencies between member states, which consequently have a negative impact on citizens. the report also highlights the need for greater coordination between the commission and the member states at earlier stages of the legislative process. in addition, the european parliament could help to review the application of union legislation by using its powers of scrutiny vis-à-vis the commission in situations where ex post evaluation proves insufficient.
in writing. ‒ full implementation of european union law by the member states is one of the conditions for deepening integration and for leveling the playing field for living and doing business in the individual member states. unfortunately, not all countries implement to the same extent and to the same extent, and what is worse, many add their own additional regulations to the already over-regulated eu law. in my view, the time has come to review the system of european union law-making, its scope of application to citizens and other legal entities, including the limitation of the impact of union legislation on the freedom to conduct a business and the freedom to decide on one's own affairs by individual citizens of the community countries. because the more freedom, the more social, civic and business entrepreneurship that drives growth.
the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. mr. chairman, please! we all know exactly what you said. these were words that should not have been spoken, which showed a lack of respect for the member states and an anti-democratic method of political decision-making. we would like to draw your attention to the fact that such statements are not only contrary to european culture, to the behaviour of civilized people responsible for the public good, but also to the mission of the president of the european parliament, who should protect the rights of minorities and express respect for all citizens and all member states. a man makes mistakes from time to time, and this is a great opportunity to apologize for that behavior.
madam president! first of all, we don't talk about refugees, because there are women and children among the refugees. they're just young men. do they come to us to work? if it were, it'd be half the poverty. it'd be good. they come to us for benefits. what's the proof? they don't want to be in turkey, poland, austria or hungary. they go to germany because they get the highest benefits. the germans are doing something crazy, of course, by paying these benefits, but that's their problem, their money - they're wasting it, they're demoralizing these people. but the germans are now demanding that we rebuild german concentration camps in poland and that we keep these people in poland by force whether we want to or not. they're running from these camps. i ask mrs. merkel: if they escape, if they cross the oder, should we shoot them? what do we do to stop them in poland? of course, the only solution is not to abolish schengen, but to abolish social security. only the end of welfare will stop this wave of refugees. and one last thing. i want to talk about the terrible thing that mr. schulz did, which was to say that he would impose his solutions by force. this has caused a huge wave of nationalism throughout europe! he plays for marine le pen. he plays for mrs. le pen. (the president read out the minutes)
madam president! commissioner avramopulos said that the commission's policy was to be one of solidarity and responsibility. i understand it this way: only responsible policies are solidarity, and irresponsible policies are not in practice solidarity. and we have to distinguish between refugees -- people who are fleeing for their lives -- and economic migration. mr brok replies that no one has invited economic migrants, but i heard that from president juncker in strasbourg. a wide open door for economic immigration that was really irresponsible and irresponsible is the method that the european commission has defended. the european commission should be the coordinator of the effort of the states, of the sovereign states. each has its own experience, its own context. meanwhile, you're trying to impose mechanical solutions that won't help the cause. better is the enemy of good. the commission should respect the member states and find a compromise.
madam president! first, we must be careful that our emotions do not rob us of some basic common sense. let's call a spade a spade. it's not a spontaneous action that suddenly so many people want to come to europe. this is a very carefully planned process that has been going on for a long time, to flood europe with a wave of migration. europe has been literally invaded by this wave of migration. if immigrants were welcome and welcomed here, there would be no debate - this debate in particular - at all. and if it did, everyone would demand that we allocate as much of these immigrants as possible. if only this were a joy and happiness for the european countries, but it is neither joy nor happiness. we know that this is a tragedy, that this wave of migration is a disaster for europe, and we are trying to protect against it. every country has a natural right to defend itself. if there are now ideas that some country should be forced to accept some amounts, this is just the idea of provoking conflicts within the european union, which is completely unacceptable, because everyone has a natural right to defence and this right should be respected.
madam president! it was a reminder that winter was coming. i'm just reminding you that with winter, christmas is coming. many of us can recall the story of this family who, in bethlehem, 2,000 years ago, went from house to house asking for a meal. and many of us would argue that christianity is one of the most important pillars that binds europe together. so let's take them seriously. talking about refugees is really talking about us europeans. what kind of citizens are we, and what kind of citizens would we like to be? what kind of poles, czechs, french, europeans do we want to be? what values - in practice, not just in words - do we want to build on and what future do we want to build on? so i appeal to you not to block each other with quotas. i've seen demonstrations in poland, including those in favour of greater european solidarity. and with this green stamp in their lapel, the protesters say "green light for political refugees". more people and institutions than would be required by the proposed amount have declared their willingness to help. i am convinced, and this is what we hear in this room, that the divisions are not only between countries, but also between societies, and that we will surely find a solution based on european solidarity.
madam president! the european union is facing an unprecedented influx of migrants. anyone who has been following the situation in the middle east and north africa and the data provided by frontex could have foreseen this development. we must be clear that we are now bearing the consequences of our own past failures and wrong decisions. however, we cannot remain indifferent to the plight of refugees. we need to find smart solutions that not only accept them, but also create a comprehensive, long-term migration policy. examples from cities such as munich show that, despite the great desire, technical limits are necessary on the number of refugees that can be accepted. therefore, despite the criticism from many partners, i believe that the polish government is acting responsibly by advocating a mechanism that will take into account the actual capabilities of member states to allocate refugees. it can't be an imposed amount. this will not be effective in the long run. when we help refugees, we must also remember our fellow citizens, their fears and their expectations. therefore, additional measures to ensure peace and security in europe, such as assistance to refugees in conflict zones, the cessation of conflicts in middle eastern countries and, in the future, the proper integration of immigrants into our society or their return to their country of origin, are essential.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start by expressing my thanks to all members of parliament who have contributed in a very constructive way to this debate. as i said at the beginning, it is a very important debate. i notice that we all agree that we are confronted with a multifaceted crisis. yes, it is a crisis of refugees and migration, but it is also a crisis that has to do with the european union and its institutions in general. it is a crisis that tests the values of the union, the credibility of europe and the validity of the principle of solidarity, but also the capacity of our institutions to react and act. i can assure you that in the commission we are fully conscious of our duty and, from the very beginning of the life of this commission, we have welcomed that. in a period of only seven months we delivered by presenting the european agenda on migration with the contribution and the approval of this house. let me also say that it is not about finger pointing. it is about finding a consensus. it is about keeping europe united. it is true that it sometimes takes more effort, but our role, the role of the commission and of the presidency – as mr asselborn said – is to discuss, to explain and to overcome differences. many of you made special reference to schengen. i want to tell you that the temporary reintroduction of border controls is explicitly foreseen in the legislation for exceptional situations and as a temporary measure. the commission is closely following developments and is also informing parliament at every stage. it is not the end of schengen. schengen is the most important, tangible achievement of europe integration and we shall protect it. talking about schengen and borders, i would also like to stress that guarding borders with violent means is not compatible with european values and principles. we are here to preserve and guarantee freedom of movement in europe, but we also need to secure our external european borders. this is why the commission’s comprehensive approach needs to be adopted and swiftly implemented. yes, i expressed my frustration at the outcome of the recent council but, with your support and the excellent work done by the luxembourg presidency, we will all go this extra mile united. we are determined – as frans timmermans said – to build bridges and to prove that europe is up to the challenge, that europe is credible, and that europe is determined to stay united, resolved, solid and humane.
in writing. the wave of migrants entering europe from conflict- and poverty-stricken regions of africa and the middle east is a real and serious challenge for eu member states. within its treaty capacity, the eu should mobilise emergency funding to support countries such as italy, greece and hungary, which have been hit by the first wave of migrants. we have to realize that the migration from conflict zones has been going on for years. countries in my region have already taken in hundreds of thousands of immigrants from ukraine and other countries in eastern europe and the caucasus, including culturally diverse chechens, ingush and tatars who arrived after successive russian invasions. we will continue to show that solidarity. but i cannot imagine pressure being put on my country by representatives of other eu member states. the forced relocation mechanism is a non-treaty, unacceptable and counter-productive solution. even if it's mitigated, the voluntary after all the speeches and pressure, i'd consider it a complete fiction. the eu's borders must be strengthened and the member states that guard them must be supported.
in writing. i am deeply saddened by the current situation where borders are being closed out of necessity and european society is being ensnared by populist xenophobia. europe must now prove that the union's values of shared responsibility and solidarity are not empty words. member states must act now and they must do so together. relocation and respect for the individual right to asylum, and above all support for countries that need financial and organisational support, are expectations that should be discussed in the first place. the eu has also been active in the field of asylum, with a particular focus on the protection of refugees and migrants. the external borders of the european union must also be remembered and must be strengthened and protected together. the european union has given its citizens the freedom to travel across its territory without passport controls, but this 'common home' of ours must be protected from the outside, no matter who wants to enter it. it is therefore necessary to focus on the activities of frontex in this area. i hope that the extraordinary council meeting on 22 september will lead to a common solution. it is necessary to discuss the reform of the dublin regulation and of the european asylum law. in short, we need a truly integrated european migration policy that is binding on the member states and that will give us a social credit for our actions.
in writing. concerned by the scale of the discrepancies in the data reported by the various media, including politicians, i suggest a reliable, rapid verification of information on migration processes, especially those concerning refugees. the fact that more than 70 percent of those fleeing war are young men, and the data shows a small percentage of full families, suggests that one in ten men is a terrorist or a potential terrorist, and that should be a cause for concern. it is also important to define terms such as the aforementioned "potential terrorist". because, given the current state of the interpretation scale, it could be anyone or rarely anyone. the importance of accurate communication is, i think, crucial to the proper response of the communities.
madam president! the 17 sustainable development goals, which form an ambitious follow-up to the millennium development goals, will be formally endorsed at the new york summit. some of these goals have been achieved: deaths from malaria and hiv have decreased, and about 80 percent of children in africa are now receiving an education. however, the new goals are intended to provide an even stronger incentive to tackle extreme poverty, eliminate social inequalities and act to reduce negative climate change. 2015 is also the european year for development and the european union has repeatedly reiterated its commitment to supporting development and ensuring that it is adequately financed. the fact that the union and its member states, as the world's largest donors of development aid, set the standard in this area is all the more gratifying. i would also like to highlight the important role of innovative sources of financing for development in the form of microfinance, non-traditional taxes and public-private partnerships, which effectively contribute to the achievement of the post-2015 sustainable development goals. the current humanitarian crisis and the difficult international situation further demonstrate that development aid is one of the key tools and the response to the challenges of the european union's long-term strategy to overcome the global development gap. in his last speech to the united nations in september 1963, kennedy, in describing the work of peace, quoted archimedes, who said, "give me a foothold, and i will lift the earth". half a century after the then president of the united states spoke those words, our generation has a chance to decide the shape of the world to come. we must therefore ensure that the new development agenda agreed by global leaders is reflected in eu regulations and implemented in the form of common european policies.
madam president! the paris climate summit enthusiasts believe that it will lead to a global breakthrough, because china has committed for the first time, although for now it's a promise to reduce emissions in the future. in ten to fifteen years, their emissions will increase. the next big emitters, like india, brazil, indonesia, they don't declare any restrictions. developing countries account for nearly half of global emissions and are continually increasing their emissions. china has quadrupled its emissions, india has more than doubled. they justify this, of course, by the need to catch up with the civilizational backlog. the principle of the union's understanding of the need for developing countries to catch up is unfortunately not applied to eu member states such as poland, which is forced to embark on a decarbonisation path, thus hurting poland's economic development and, above all, poland's energy security. in conclusion, to attribute the migration crisis to climate change is the height of absurdity.
in writing. i dedicate these words to the participants of cop 21 in paris. climate change is leading to extreme events - flash floods and catastrophic droughts. the large amounts of money currently spent on reducing greenhouse gas emissions are not enough to reverse these trends. the issue of emissions has dominated the climate debate, while the issue of adaptation to climate change has become a burning issue, and it has been pushed back. if it is true that greenhouse gas emissions have led to adverse climate change (a claim that has not been proven by the ipcc), then the forthcoming conference should consider not only the problem of reducing them but also ways to increase the absorption capacity of our globe. the recent drought in europe, followed by floods, is a clear warning sign. this indicates the need to reassess the eu's climate policy, which should focus more on adaptation, including afforestation, to mitigate climate change and on which, rather than just reducing co2, the main financial resources should be directed. in the case of poland, this means a return to the ambitious concepts known as the unrealized "wisła program". the main aims of the programme were to reduce the steppe-like character of large areas of poland, to provide drinking water for future generations of poles and to protect the country from flooding.
in writing. i believe that in the discussions - also in the european parliament - on the millennium development goals and the subsequent sustainable development goals, each of us has seen these goals mainly through the lens of the human need to help those most in need. the migration crisis currently affecting europe is a stark illustration of the interdependence of the modern world. if we do not take effective action to combat poverty and if we do not support peace processes, we may suffer serious consequences for not doing so. i therefore consider it particularly important to commit not only politically but also financially to the new sustainable development goals. in this context, i consider the council's proposal to reduce commitments and payments in the draft budget for 2016 in title iv entitled 'global dimension of europe' to be highly risky.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's proposal for the summer energy package aims to build a common energy policy. this is essential in the light of the agreed energy union, which aims to ensure equal treatment, solidarity and security of energy supply between member states. however, we were surprised to learn that a new pipeline, nord stream 2, is being built to connect russia and germany and will deliver another 55 billion cubic metres of russian gas. the surprising fact is that the largest companies in the european union are involved in the project. the biggest surprise, however, is the fact that the investment was financed through deutsche bank. this is completely contrary to the diversification of gas supply and completely contrary to the idea of an energy union. the question is, is this building an energy union?
mr. chairman, please! the summer this year was cold for the first three weeks. i've had about 50 meetings on the coast. i met with about ten thousand people, and when i said it was cold because the union was fighting global warming, they all laughed and cried. no one thinks that two trillion dollars in mud has anything to do with temperature. and they're right. the question is why the two trillion dollars were thrown away. the first concept is that gazprom agents are here because, strangely enough, the atom is bad, the coal is bad, and the shale gas is bad, and what gazprom provides, which is oil and gas, is good. the second concept is that if you spend two trillion euros, ten percent goes to the person who orders. it's just a bribe. if the european public prosecutor's office is established - we demand the european public prosecutor's office - we will report it to the public prosecutor's office to see if there is any bribery. thirdly, the only common policy that is possible is for everyone to buy what is cheapest. and that is the only proper common policy.
mr. chairman, please! thank you so much for the summer package. we've been waiting for him. we're waiting for the legislation to be passed. the consumer is the most important part of this package, and that's how it should be. our citizens should know why we are creating the energy union, how important it is to them, how it can increase their confidence that there will be no shortage of energy. but prosumers are also important, and it is good that the european commission has taken this into account, because prosumers can ensure both the supply of energy, and this everywhere in the european union, as well as, which is very important, the protection of the atmosphere, the protection of the climate and the protection of the environment. it is therefore important to design our common energy market well, because this gives our consumers a chance: the flexibility of this market, the carousel flows that need to be eliminated, the direct and indirect costs of eliminating co2. all of these are very important, but for consumers, work is also important. they want jobs and the ets has to be designed so that heavy industry doesn't leave the eu, because that's really threatening us, up to 30 percent. finally, a community approach is needed to ensure gas supplies to the european union. this is part of the energy union and this new idea to increase nord stream, and do it in such a significant way, can threaten security. i wanted to ask if the european commission is looking at the impact of the nord stream expansion on the security situation and the energy package that we have in front of us?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the proposals for changes in the summer energy package unfortunately demonstrate a lack of foresight on the state of the eu economy as a whole. the proposed solutions are bankrupting the european coal industry. the energy union is to mean an energy based solely on renewable sources. the measures of the investment fund will in no way compensate for the losses incurred by the coal-based economies. this is the situation facing my country, poland, among others, and i am here to oppose it. the adoption of the rules proposed by the commission will only exacerbate the differences in the civilizational development of the various european countries. the solutions imposed to eliminate coal are in breach of the eu's fundamental principles on the free movement of funds, persons and goods. i do not agree with the current shape of the energy union and i say this out of concern for the economic situation of many european countries. if we are a european community, let us respect the principles of equal treatment and respect for the weaker countries in this community.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's swift start on the energy union is to be welcomed. the package contains regulations that will improve the situation of consumers in the energy market. unfortunately, i am concerned about the commission's proposals to reform the eu's emission trading market. withdrawing some allowances from the market in order to raise their prices may prove to be a mistake in the long run, weakening the potential of our economy. i appreciate the commission's wish to protect sectors and businesses particularly vulnerable to leaving europe, but i do not think it will have the desired effect. the problem we need to solve is europe's isolation in the fight against climate change. all the big emitters, including the united states, china and russia, are not doing enough, as the negotiations leading up to the paris climate summit show. by imposing additional burdens on industry, we are not rebuilding it, and that should be our primary objective at this time. without industrial development, we cannot improve the situation on the labour market. the recent announcement of the construction of a second nord stream pipeline, which will make europe even more dependent on russian gas, is also a cause for concern. this idea suggests that some people have not learned anything from what is happening in the east of the continent.
in writing. the security of energy supply, including at affordable prices for consumers and without harming the environment, should be a priority for the european union. however, i am concerned to see that the member states of the european union often have inconsistent energy policies, which are mainly based on solutions that do not reduce europe's dependence on supplies from one direction, the east. at the same time, the union is pursuing a very strict climate policy, which not only undermines our energy security but also, as a consequence, the competitiveness of the european economy. one of the negative effects is the 'push' of some of the most energy-intensive sectors into non-european areas of the world where there are virtually no restrictions on pollutant emissions. this threatens to have the opposite of the intended effect, namely the absence of climate change, a reduced competitiveness of the economy, increased unemployment, greater social stratification and even more poverty in europe. i believe that all the community's economic and social objectives, including environmental objectives, are important and should be pursued without fail, but the dynamics of these activities should be rationally adapted to the capabilities of all, not just individual member states, and incorporated as appropriate into the global process.
question asked by raising the blue card. mr. chairman! i'm glad you're aware that agriculture is in crisis and that you understand the need to support agriculture. do you also understand the need to level out the subsidies for farmers so that they are the same in all the member states? i remind you that in poland farmers receive much lower subsidies than in france or germany.
mr. chairman, please! it's worth asking ourselves: why do we take action, intervene only after such large demonstrations? couldn't we have done this earlier? are we missing some information, some analysis? delayed intervention always costs a lot more. we just need to allocate more funds. the truth is that we did not introduce the appropriate instruments to safeguard the agricultural market in the reform we implemented. i'm talking about what's called a safety net. here too we - the commission and parliament - have made a step backwards, and i think that was also our mistake. agricultural production depends on many factors. it is therefore subject to certain fluctuations. surplus production must be withdrawn from the market. it's a very difficult self-regulation. even the financial markets were unable to regulate themselves, as the post-2008 crisis showed. we say the cure is to improve competitiveness. there is a lot of truth in that, but competition leads to concentration, concentration leads to industrialization, and that is no longer the model of european agriculture.
mr. chairman, please! the amounts of aid proposed, which are agreed with the council of agriculture ministers, are not just a drop in the bucket, but a drop in the bucket. in poland alone, we have millions of hectares of sunburned land, drought losses of hundreds of millions of euros, perhaps even billions, and the forecast of twenty-eight million euros is completely inadequate to these losses. in medicine, there's a saying, "primum non nocere", which means "first of all, do no harm". and i would like to quote that saying: first of all, do not harm by penalties for milk quotas. in the face of this great drought disaster that has hit poland, farmers are paying fines that exceed two hundred million euros, leading to the bankruptcy of many farms. the abolition of these useless penalties would be a real help, since the amounts have been abolished. in the name of what, in the name of what values do farmers have to pay this extortion, these terrible fines? they should be abolished. then we would feel that it was help.
mr. chairman, please! i am surprised to see the commission's proposal to allocate eur 420 million to the various eu countries in response to the agricultural crisis. the amount for poland is only 29 million euros, given that our agriculture is suffering from a catastrophic drought, which has already caused losses of crop production of over one billion euros. in the next few months, the lack of bulk feed will also cause serious losses for producers of beef and dairy cattle, which will only increase the losses dramatically. in a situation where the income in polish agriculture is among the lowest in the european union, where polish milk producers are paying fines for overproduction of milk for the second year in a row - this year it is about one hundred and eighty million euros - the commission's proposal to support polish farmers with only twenty-nine million euros is unacceptable. the commission's decision to stop levying fines for exceeding milk quotas would be a real help to polish farmers.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in my region of poland, a drought that no one remembers has reduced the yield of livestock feed by more than 50 percent. the owners of these dairy farms are faced not so much with the problem of reduced profitability of production or loss of liquidity the owners of these farms are faced with the problem of losing the entire production potential of the basic herds that they have built up over many years, perhaps even generations. i think that this problem has not been properly considered and taken into account in the european commission's proposal. five hundred million euros may be a significant amount, but european milk producers will pay far more in fines for the past year alone. in poland, the amount of aid for the past year was 160 million euros, and the support for the dairy and livestock sectors was less than 30 million. that is clearly not enough support, commissioner.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament from poland, i am disappointed with the outcome of the extraordinary meeting of agriculture ministers and the meeting of experts. the commission's commitment of eur 28.9 million of the eur 500 million for polish farmers is not sufficient. i would like to ask commissioner hogan why the aid to farmers in germany or france is twice as high. this is incomprehensible to me, especially since the amount of eur 500 million comes mainly from the margin of the eu agricultural budget in 2016, fuelled by the fines for exceeding the milk quotas, which are largely paid by polish farmers. the commission has also taken the view that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, i therefore call on the commission once again to remove these burdens. i would like to remind you that these penalties are not justified on economic grounds, because the limits throughout the eu have not been exceeded. in the face of one of the most serious agricultural crises of the last decade, such a decision would be a real help. i also call on the commission to increase its resources to deal with the worst drought since 2003, which has affected both western and central eastern european countries, including my home country of poland.
in writing.– with a view to the current agricultural crisis which concerns mostly the dairy and pigmeat sector, i believe it is important to come up with the measures that will reinstate stability in those sectors. european farmers seem to face significantly large cash-flow difficulties. moreover, as mentioned before, there seems to be a worrying issue concerning pigmeat supply. this might be due to the pigmeat embargo introduced by the russian federation, which was one of the most significant importers of pork – this probably influenced the profitability of pig keeping negatively. it caused the deficit in the supply and therefore the increase in prices. there is also an issue connected with the drought and there are speculations that due to that, the prices of sugar may actually significantly increase. all of the above is definitely not helping the economic crisis we – and by ‘we’ i mean europe – are currently facing. therefore, there is a need to provide help for farmers. the financial help is already offered; however, it has not been decided yet how it will be distributed, and that is important to establish.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches (rule 163).
the following persons are hereby appointed as members of the management board of the agency: mr. chairman, please! europe is being flooded by a wave of migration of millions. unthinking and unreasonable solutions to this problem are being proposed. in addition, president schulz stated that forceful arguments should be used against countries that do not agree with the imposed standards for accepting refugees. these words are unworthy and embarrassing. it is worth reminding president schulz that the forced relocation mechanism is an unacceptable, non-treaty and inhumane solution. the majority of polish public opinion is against this solution. poland did not participate in colonialism or destabilize the situation in the middle east. it was not poland, but germany that had an open immigration policy, encouraging people to come through online advertising, offering jobs and housing. today, germany is blaming all the countries of the european union for its own mistakes.
mr. chairman, please! a few days ago, a contract was signed in vladivostok for the construction of the nord stream 2 transmission network. this agreement contradicts the idea of european solidarity, because the construction of the pipeline is against the interests of poland and ukraine. in the future, this may lead to the cessation of gas transit through these countries, which will consequently cause an energy crisis in central and eastern europe. such particular decisions strengthen gazprom's dominant position in this part of europe, the negative consequences of which will be felt by all of us in the future. in addition, strict compliance with union energy law is one of the main objectives of the energy union. in the case of nord stream 2, there is a risk that the european commission will exempt gazprom from the rules of the third climate package. there can be no acceptance of selective compliance with the law, whether it concerns germany or smaller eu member states. that is why i am calling on the commission today to block the contract and i am calling on the member states to respect and respect the law and the european solidarity that has been so much talked about recently in the context of immigrants. the relationship with nord stream 2 is a real test of european solidarity today and i hope the union will pass this text.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to raise the same problem as that raised by mr jackiewicz, because in this parliament we have spoken so much about european solidarity, we have condemned russia for its aggressive policy towards ukraine, for its disregard for human rights. we have talked a lot about this recently in strasbourg, and we are also talking about the energy union and solidarity in this area. how does the recently signed nord stream 2 deal relate to all this? the commission has also been working on a number of other proposals, including the one on the future of the european union. the nord stream pipeline, which has already connected russia with germany, has been contrary to these values from the very beginning and this is evidenced by the fact that, in cases where economic interests are at stake, both values and the idealism espoused by german politicians, including, unfortunately, president schulz, are relegated to the background. i think we should call for reflection on this project and also maybe dedicate more time to this project.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
in writing. ‒ the commission's 2016 work programme prioritises the full implementation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) so that the eu economy can feel its first effects, including in the social development dimension. our aim is to continuously raise social standards, implement concrete, effective and fair trade rules and better and more transparent regulation across the eu. we need sustained economic growth, new jobs, while at the same time taking into account sustainable development, including the energy market, and thus addressing the inevitable climate change. the european commission must take concrete steps to eliminate long-standing discrimination in the labour market, especially against older workers, disabled people, young people and women on maternity leave. the european parliament and the council have adopted a number of legislative proposals to speed up, simplify and strengthen border checks for foreigners travelling to the european union. the future of the eu will depend on the implementation of these plans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the commission's work programme for 2016. i consider monitoring the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as a key initiative of the commission to stimulate growth and employment to be a particularly important priority for the commission's work. i hope that, as promised, the efsi will focus, among other things, on tackling the social consequences of the crisis, including unemployment and poverty. we also need more support for education and training projects, which should be geared towards ensuring access to quality education for all. projects financed under the efsi should also support the development of dual education systems, which in the long term will translate into increased employment, competitiveness and innovation of the union economy. in addition, flagship eu programmes in the fields of education and culture, such as erasmus+, which directly benefit europeans in many ways, should be strengthened. we also need to address new challenges, including terrorism and the increasing radicalisation. in this context, i stress the need for a multi-level approach to these issues, which must include addressing their root causes through education, dialogue, support for teachers and strengthening action to combat radicalisation and prevent marginalisation.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with many of the commission's proposals for 2016, especially on the issues of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, better law-making, proper implementation of existing legislation, efficient use of taxpayers' money, combating fraud, and finally the importance of the ttip, i could not support the motion for a resolution because of the proposed eu leadership formula, political union, eu tax policy, the community method, social market economy, the istanbul convention and the issue of references to the regulations on legal migration controls.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's resolution on the commission's 2016 work programme, prepared by parliament, is a comprehensive document outlining the challenges facing the eu in the near future. it is particularly important to me that in the first part of the resolution parliament already points to the need to achieve a single internal market. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. it is equally important for me to stress the need to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which is a necessary condition for the economic development of the community. that is one of the reasons why i voted for the european parliament's resolution.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a council decision introducing provisional measures in the area of international protection for italy, greece and hungary. my vote is not against migration or refugee assistance, but against the way we try to solve this problem. the solutions proposed by the european commission do not address the root of these problems, but merely respond to the effects. it's a flawed logic that will prevent us from helping those in need. it's time to stop pretending that there is no war in syria, because this is the source and reason for the current migration. secondly, we cannot look at the union as a loose bundle of 28 countries, we must seal the external borders, or at least respect the dublin agreements. i hope that more comprehensive and thoughtful solutions will be proposed at the forthcoming european council and european union council summits.
in writing. ‒ migration is not a new problem it is an undeniable fact. however, it is also a fact that the current crisis will not be solved by the measures that the council is proposing. it's an emergency response designed to treat the symptoms, not the cause. these can only be removed where the crisis originated, in the middle east and north africa. we have to help the persecuted there. that's where we should be focusing our efforts. there are real refugees out there who need our help. we're not gonna change the direction of the immigration process with an administrative decision. thousands of people are migrating to germany and crossing the border without any regulation. they will not comply with an order forcing them to relocate to another member state. what are we going to do then to implement this resolution? we'll set up encampments, put barbed wire around them, keep watch day and night? we saw images yesterday from hungary, where the european union's external border was stormed and rocked. do we want to see these images on our streets? this is the result of our tolerance for breaking the law and violating the principles on which the schengen area is based. today's decision opens the way not only to the relocation of 120,000 immigrants, but also to hundreds of thousands more who will come here encouraged by our position. this is an irresponsible and dangerous resolution, the effects of which will be felt in the eu for many years to come.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are aware that the financial crisis will lead to a persistent negative growth rate in greece and to serious liquidity and public financing problems for the necessary investments to stimulate economic growth and job creation. the european commission's next plan for greece this time in the form of releasing the last 5% of payments from the european union budget until the closure of the programmes and increasing the maximum co-financing level to 100%, as well as making additional initial advances available for 2015 and 2016 only confirms the union's mobilisation and readiness to assist the crisis-stricken member state. however, i would like to remind the european commission that cohesion policy is first and foremost the european union's largest investment policy, not a financial lifeline for countries threatened with bankruptcy. therefore, any action taken using the mechanisms of cohesion policy must not have consequences, especially budgetary consequences, for the beneficiary countries of this policy, either now or in the future. the solutions proposed must be absolutely extraordinary, unique and, above all, one-off. we therefore expect the european commission to make a clear statement and to ensure that the new special measures for greece will not have a negative impact on payments to other countries, will not be used as an argument in the next review and negotiations on the mff and will not cause a backlog of payments.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on the specific measures for greece, i would like to express the hope that both the increase to 100% of the maximum co-financing rate for greek programmes implemented from 2007 to 2013 and the increase in the advance payments for programmes implemented from now on will be another important instrument of union support for the country's entry on a path of stable economic growth. such exceptional measures should, on the one hand, concentrate the european funds allocated to greece in the amount of over eur 2 billion, and, on the other hand, the application of the maximum 100% co-financing rate should result in savings in greek budgetary expenditure of eur 2 billion. i would like to express the hope that this financial effort of the union budget will not be wasted by the greek authorities, because the 100% financing of projects by the union unfortunately creates such a danger. i also believe that the concentration of over eur 2 billion of payments to greece should be fully compensated by the end of the current financial framework and therefore neutral for the multiannual budget for 2014-2020.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! the discussion we're having is not about a normal case, and it's not about a policy change. we're talking about an emergency today, and we're changing the regulations, changing the way we're funding it. and this is a very consequential surgery. first, it is clearly a kind of emergency response, that is, a statement that a change of approach is needed. the question is whether we are dealing with a long-term change or a short-term action that is relevant to a specific situation. we're making some temporary changes to the rules because shared management also requires shared funding. the moment we abandon shared financing, we are dealing with only partially shared management. we must therefore be aware that this is an emergency situation, that this is an emergency aid situation, but it may have consequences if it happens that it will also affect other countries where it will be necessary to change certain rules. this is a matter of precedent. i am of course in favour of this type of action, but as a measure of financial support for greece, not as a change in cohesion policy.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, first of all thank you for this debate, from which i actually sense quite broad support for the commission’s proposal. indeed, eu funds have made a major contribution to strengthening greece’s economy and social and territorial cohesion. but now the investment co-financed with eu funds is being held back by the greek state’s tight liquidity situation, and also the generally very difficult state of the greek economy. so this is a unique situation and the measures proposed are exceptional. once again, i would like to thank the co-legislators for moving ahead speedily with this file, because time is indeed of the essence for the success of this proposal. the eligibility date for expenditure under the 2007-2013 programmes is imminent: the end of this year. without these extraordinary measures many already well-advanced investments would be at risk of being forgotten. turning to some of the questions which were raised regarding this proposal: on the consequences for other cohesion states, i must ensure that there are no negative consequences for other member states in terms of payments, and the commission would by no means make any arguments in this regard in a mid-term review. as i outlined in my introductory remarks, this proposal is budget-neutral under the current multiannual financial framework period.
in writing. cohesion policy is europe's main investment policy. as the sixth cohesion report showed, it also played its role well in times of crisis, helping national and local authorities to mitigate the effects of the economic downturn. cohesion policy is also, by definition, a solidarity policy. it's designed to help those areas that are doing worse than the others. for these reasons, i support the proposal to amend the regulation to grant special measures to greece. i believe that the solutions proposed will ensure that, in the exceptional situation in which greece finds itself, cohesion policy can continue to play its investment and growth-promoting role there. the new rules will allow greeks to complete existing projects and start new ones. at the same time, care should be taken to ensure that the proposed solutions do not have negative budgetary consequences for other countries. therefore, this change must be unique and one-off.
madam president! i would like to thank eleni theocharous for her work on this report, which highlights the importance of local authorities for development. local government is closest to its communities. like no one else knows their needs. we also see this in our work in the regions of the member states of the european union. building this awareness in developing countries is crucial not only for central and local governments, but also for citizens. the centres of power should support the process of decentralisation and transfer good governance models, competences and financial resources so that they can be used most effectively at local level. local authorities, on the other hand, must be open to dialogue with citizens as well as to cooperation with civil society organisations, other administrative bodies and private partners. these partnerships have a real impact on social inclusion by promoting education, strengthening micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, creating jobs and supporting sustainable economic growth in the region. i would also like to stress the key role of local authorities in crisis situations. the fair distribution of humanitarian aid, which must reach the most vulnerable groups first, is not possible without good governance and dialogue with partners and aid organisations. in view of all the above, it is appropriate that local governments are even better represented in the international negotiations for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda.
madam president, a locally driven approach and greater civic participation are the keys to achieving more effective poverty reduction and equitable development. in implementing the post-2015 development agenda, the fact that the local dimension is of utmost importance must be further acknowledged. the engagement of local authorities in dialogue must be considered essential. in the resource-allocation process they reflect the closest possible connection between development aid and its intended beneficiaries. they are the first to respond to the changing needs of local society, and they provide basic services in terms of access to education, health and sanitation. by reinforcing decentralised public aid and fostering partnership with the private sector, we can improve social cohesion and inclusive economic growth. nevertheless, cooperation with local authorities must be monitored and controlled by good governance so that the results are lasting and do not dissolve when incentives are withdrawn.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like once again to welcome and congratulate the rapporteur, ms theocharous, for this comprehensive and well-targeted report. we share a common vision: the idea that one of the key challenges for the next 15 years will be the localisation of the sustainable development goals. this must not be just another repackaging of the usual existing actions. we need to think from the outset about data desegregation at sub-national level. this approach has to be a real new paradigm where local authorities in the north and the global south become strongly involved, not just in the implementation but also in the nurturing of the sustainable development goals. this report is very welcome and it strengthens the eu’s views. we will continue to intensify, with your backing, our support to local authorities in development policy.
in writing. the european union is committed to supporting local authorities in developing countries, as this leads to poverty reduction and the democratisation of local government. the weight of these efforts is shown by the fact that the world's population is projected to increase from about 7 billion to 9.5 billion by 2050. the bulk of this growth will be in developing countries, particularly in their urban areas. while i agree with the eu's support for local communities, i want to highlight an important issue. the european union's assistance cannot be unconditional. among the various conditions set by the eu, the fight against corruption must also be included. countries that are not making progress in the fight against corruption should not receive eu financial support. eu funds should be used to improve sanitation, access to education and transport. there is no justification for eu funds to be appropriated by local leaders.
mr. chairman, please! vladimir putin has declared cooperation with the west in resolving the syrian conflict. it is not clear to what extent he is implementing this declaration. one thing is certain, the promise itself made it easier for him to return to the international diplomatic salons. traditionally, the russian president, when presenting a carrot to the west, to my region, and especially to my country, had a stick. that stick was the extension of sanctions to fish processing, further sanctions to fish processing and polish companies. this case has a serious aspect: the federal veterinary and phytosanitary surveillance service acted on behalf of the sovereign institutions of the countries that make up the eurasian union. it is also comical: sanctions were hastily imposed on a polish company in my constituency which had not exported any goods to russia for over two years.
mr president, on 30 september 2015 the russian federation started bombing syria, claiming that the attacks are directed against islamic state. however, according to independent media, the aerial campaign ordered by president putin has mainly targeted the rebel groups opposing the regime of president bashar al—assad. this russian intervention not being coordinated with the nato-led coalition of western and arab states adds new dimensions to syria’s now four-year-long civil war and to the refugee crisis faced by the eu. not only do the airstrikes not improve the situation in syria but they make it even worse, causing numerous civilian casualties and increasing the number of syrian refugees seeking protection in europe. importantly, russia openly refuses support for any refugees from the middle east. all this demonstrates that president putin is not interested in finding a political solution to the syrian crisis. i therefore strongly urge all eu member states and eu authorities to put pressure on russia to stop this unilateral intervention and to engage in constructive cooperation with the international community to solve the syrian crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the un high commissioner said that 8 000 immigrants come to europe every day. mr tusk mentioned, at one point, one million in the coming months. if those numbers are at least partly correct, it is clear that what the commission and the council have prepared for us is far from satisfactory. it is a stop-gap: it is certainly not a solution. as usual we have had confused and confusing language, and the traditional share of bullying and invective against those who disagree. we have had disregard for laws that we ourselves established. humanitarian arguments were mixed with political ones. mr timmermans, for example, went so far as to say that the reallocation scheme is good for our souls. amazing – he really did say that! we have had elements of blackmail and typical euro-casuistry. the immigrants were invited and then disinvited. the schengen procedures were abolished and then restored again. if this gigantic confusion is a reflection of the state the eu is in, then god help us! what we did not have, however, is the long-term objective. what is the final state of affairs that we want to attain? the council talked about the cultural and social criteria that are to be taken into account in immigration policies. i think this makes sense. i am afraid, however, that europeans have built such a powerful system of taboos and inhibitions around the immigration question that there is not much hope for a rational debate. my safe prediction is that we will have more and more of the same.
mr. chairman, please! europe is at a turning point, at a very difficult moment, and both the content of your speech and the way it is presented indicate the extreme seriousness of the situation. and they also point out to us in the european parliament that the situation is very difficult inside the european council. this is a signal to us that something needs to change in the way the european union works. the dramatic tone of your speech indicates that this cannot go on. i would therefore like to ask the president how he views the debate on the division of powers today. what are the member states really doing today? what are the member states to do together? what is the european council to do? how many of the decisions that fall - and there is a debate in europe - fall within the treaty and how many fall outside the treaty? it is a moment when the union must examine its way of functioning, if indeed the situation you speak of is so complicated. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. i don't know, i don't know who these people are. these people need to be checked out. there are no easy answers. if there were simple answers, we wouldn't be having this debate today. first you have to stop them, then you have to check them, then you have to possibly take them in if they are real refugees, and if they are not real refugees, you have to try to send them back if there is a possibility. so i don't know if that's satisfactory to you, but i don't think there are any simple answers.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask a question to mr lamassoure, but since my last vote was also competent and devoid of emotion, i would like to ask whether the european solution (...) yes, yes, yes, there is a mistake . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. today, every member state is either directly affected by this process or is faced with a real risk of it. it is good that the european council has begun to look at this problem in its entirety. political decisions have been taken not only on the mechanism for relocating refugees, but also on strengthening the external borders and on increasing assistance to the regions from which migrants come. international organisations point out that aid in conflict zones or neighbouring countries is often cheaper and more effective than funding support for refugees coming to europe. but i fear that a billion euros may not be enough. the council conclusions were lacking in specific decisions on return policy. europe cannot afford to take in all those who want to live on our continent refugees and economic migrants must be separated and the latter sent back. it is estimated that of the approximately one million people who will arrive in europe this year, more than half will be economic migrants. this shows the scale of the next challenge facing member states. a few weeks ago, jeffrey sachs asked, when will the european union solve the four most important problems: the crisis in greece, the influx of migrants, the ukraine-russia crisis, aid to africa? how far along are we in solving these four problems?
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the european commission has finally understood that mandatory relocation quotas are not the only way to solve the problem. it's good that we're finally starting to effectively limit the sources and the real roots of migration. the protection of the community's external borders, including those of greece, italy and malta, is now a sine qua non condition for dealing with europe's greatest crisis. the operational activities of hotspots and the actual return of those not entitled to asylum are urgently needed in this context, but the prospect of each refugee and his personal safety is equally important. tell me, how can the countries that will be hosting the refugees as a result of the relocation ensure their safety, if our colleagues on the right are already fuelling xenophobic, anti-immigrant and racist sentiments, if there is already active resistance, exaggerated threats and fear of sharia? mr. chairman, please! the new immigration package is not enough. today we need to reorganise the protection of the external borders of the european union so that we can re-establish real and full control over them. and we need a big education campaign to convince local communities that hosting refugees is not a threat to their safety. it's more a testament to their sensitivity and humanity to those fleeing war and bombs.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in refugee camps outside the union is dramatic and it is there that the greatest humanitarian aid should be directed. i'm glad we finally got that figured out. and we also need to think about how to address not the symptoms but the causes of this tragedy, and that requires a completely different policy, perhaps including military involvement. but we certainly will not solve the problem by opening the external borders of the union to every refugee, every illegal immigrant, and by adding to the chaos. today, even the germans have come to realize that their options are limited and that they are slowly regaining their sense of reality. we can't do anything, and we won't be able to save the world. and it should be made clear that the humanitarian solution is not to forcibly relocate refugees in europe and forcibly keep them in a country where they have no intention of migrating and where society is not prepared to accept them. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
blue-card answer.– my answer to your questions would be that we have to consider suffering people, but we also have to have a responsible policy in the east, the far-east and near-east region, and with our neighbourhood, both in the east and in the south. and we have to be responsible in our policymaking, not just making policies based on emotions, even if they are humanitarian emotions.
in writing. ‒ a new protocol to the ilo convention on forced and compulsory labour was adopted in geneva in june 2014. the protocol addresses the gaps in the implementation of the provisions of the convention on forced and compulsory labour and aims to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced labour, as well as in the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the convention is an important step in the fight against modern slavery. although 80 years have passed since the original convention was widely ratified, at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. therefore, cross-border cooperation in the prosecution of perpetrators of these crimes is a key element in ensuring that modern slavery is punished and brought to an end. member states cannot decide to ratify the protocol outside the eu institutions, as some parts of the protocol fall within the eu's competence. the council therefore adopted a draft decision authorising the member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the eu's competence. i hereby endorse the report.
in writing. ‒ a 21st century society should not and cannot tolerate forced labour in any circumstances and in any form on the free market. the 2014 ilo protocol addresses the fundamental rights of victims and the fight against trafficking in human beings, a crime that has a degrading impact not only on individuals but also on society as a whole and on the economy as a whole. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the convention on forced or compulsory labour and i believe that ratification of this protocol is an important step both in ensuring that the rights of victims are respected and in combating trafficking in human beings.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention of the international labour organization with regard to matters related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. my position in that matter can simply be explained by the following. during the last plenary session i voted in favour on the same protocol – on the issues concerning the social policy. at that time, i stated that preventing the trafficking of labour exploitation and compensating the victims of forced labour should be of high importance to us. i still believe this is a very important aspect. the aspect we, as the european union, should focus our attention on. according to statistics millions of people are forced to work – not only in undeveloped countries, but even in the developed ones! however, in order to stop this problem, or at least minimise it, we have to support the parts of the protocol that fall into competences of the eu such as the articles related to social policies as well as judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ smoking, as a common term for a wide range of products containing psychoactive substances, contributes to the health and lives of thousands of europeans every year. the fight against them is particularly difficult, not only because of the problem of detection of psychoactive substances in the body, but above all because of the fact that manufacturers of stimulants constantly change their chemical composition, which avoids the existing prohibitions on their production and sale. the extension of the list of substances subject to control measures is therefore a good step, but in the long term, the continuous addition of further additives with only a slight difference in composition from those previously prohibited is ineffective. therefore, another way of excluding harmful substances should be considered, i.e. not on the basis of a specific name or a specific chemical composition that is very easy to modify, but on the basis of the effects of taking harmful substances. otherwise, we'll always be one step behind the manufacturers and distributors of the doping.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was established in 2002 to provide financial assistance to eligible countries affected by large-scale natural disasters or exceptional regional disasters. the commission proposes to mobilise the eusf to provide financial assistance following the severe winter in bulgaria, which resulted in a disaster classified as a 'serious natural disaster', and two floods in greece classified under the eusf criteria as 'regional disasters'. i supported both proposals as both cases meet the requirements of the eusf and have a strong impact on local communities and economies. my group supports the principle and the objectives of the eusf and that is why i supported the resolution on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the creation of eu protection in the form of geographical indications for non-manufactured products seems to be a necessity, given that the craft sector is also a driver of economic growth in the union. as an integral part of our identity, they are an important part of the cultural heritage of each member state and a guarantee of the quality of traditional products. the extension of the protection of geographical indications will also have a positive impact on both producers and consumers, increasing their confidence in products by including information on their quality, origin and production methods and conditions. the introduction of such legislation can stimulate innovation in traditional production processes and help to safeguard jobs in underdeveloped areas by providing small and micro enterprises with opportunities to increase sales through a more effective marketing strategy. moreover, the introduction of geographical indications will contribute to combating the counterfeit product market and the illegal use of geographical indications and other unlawful practices that mislead consumers and are harmful to traders.
in writing. ‒ the legal affairs committee of the european parliament has decided that we should introduce legislation to regulate the use of geographical indications on non-herbal products. under such a system, consumers would have access to information on the origin of a product, which would allow them to easily identify it and make a more informed purchase decision. the linking of the purchased product to a specific region would facilitate the assessment of its quality, production standards and the origin of its ingredients or components. moreover, the promotion of local products leads directly to the flourishing of the local economy, the preservation of traditional production methods, the protection of culture and the development of tourism. the instruments governing copyright issues, protecting the market against counterfeiting, must also be provided for. if we create the right legal framework for such a system, we indirectly support the development of entire regions where such goods are produced, and let us not forget that very often these are rural areas. by supporting local production, not just agriculture, we also support the local community.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation of the world's economies is significantly increasing the mobility of business, the production of goods and the provision of services. this is a positive process and it is difficult to imagine any limitations, for example, to the protection of the geographical origin of certain products or services. on the other hand, there are undoubtedly sectors and industries which, because of their regional or local characteristics, should be protected in terms of their origin or specific production methods. this catalogue of industries or fields includes the production of foodstuffs, but also crafts, handicrafts and local artistic creativity. these forms of economic activity should be subject to specific legal protection, not only to respect the rights of those communities that have been engaged in such production for decades, and often for centuries, but also to protect a particular tradition and culture for posterity. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's report on the extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-perishable products.
in writing. ‒ proper indication of the origin of regional products is important for both producers and consumers. manufacturers are guaranteed that their product is protected against unauthorised copying by means of a certification system and compliance with specific requirements concerning the materials used or the manufacturing methods used. consumers, on the other hand, are given a tool to make informed purchases in line with their preferences and expectations. the establishment of such an effective labelling system at european level has been successful in the area of marketing agricultural products and has contributed to increasing consumer awareness. agricultural products from poland have also become more recognisable and, thanks to their high quality, have been permanently established on the markets of other member states. we can achieve similar success in the area of non-sexual products, which is why i voted in favour of this report. such a system will not only guarantee the protection of traditional production methods, but will also allow the creation of jobs in regions where local crafts are an important part of the cultural and economic heritage. however, a green light for the creation of a european labelling system does not mean an unconditional approval of possible shortcomings of this system. the creation of eu standards for the labelling of non-perishable regional products must of course involve a sound information campaign for consumers and must not create an administrative barrier for producers wishing to register their products in such a database.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to release the last 5% of payments to greece from the eu budget until the closure of the programmes, to increase the maximum co-financing level to 100% and to make available additional initial advances for 2015 and 2016. i supported the commission's proposal on the condition that this action is exceptional, one-off and the change is budget neutral for the period 2014-2020; it does not entail any changes to the annual ceilings of the multiannual financial framework for commitment and payment appropriations. in addition, the annual breakdown of commitment appropriations for the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund remains unchanged.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr theocharous. most of my professional life has been spent in regional development and local government, which is why i believe so strongly in their extraordinary potential to identify the real needs of the region and its people and thus contribute to its faster development. i am therefore convinced that, wherever possible, cooperation with developing countries should be based on cooperation with local government, and i support the suggestion in mrs theocharous' report that the commission should consider making decentralisation the main area of eu external financing. i also believe that fighting poverty and improving living standards in developing countries, also with the support of local and regional authorities, is one of the important ways of preventing the migration crisis at its source, which is why i am in favour of increasing funding for this purpose in the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation stresses the importance of involving local authorities and national parliaments in the planning and implementation of development strategies, with an emphasis on decentralisation of public aid. the mdgs have been overlooked by local authorities in the implementation strategy, and therefore the sdgs should pay particular attention to strengthening the capacity of local authorities in urban taxation and budget planning so that national resources can be effectively mobilised at local level. as a member of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly and of the committee on regional development, i understand the concerns of my colleagues from developing countries and also highlight the role of local authorities in strengthening local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, creating new jobs and promoting sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
in writing. ‒ democracy is decentralisation. it is difficult to imagine the development of democracy in developing countries without strengthening local authority, especially in those countries that have previously had authoritarian or even totalitarian systems. in all these countries, in addition to supporting constitutional solutions for democracy building, efforts should be encouraged to develop civil society and its representation at the lowest level, local government. it plays a vital role in reducing various types of exclusion and in resolving social tensions. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ development as a social and economic phenomenon always has a distinct local context, and success in breaking down inequalities and raising living standards in developing countries is not possible without the involvement of local authorities. from identifying the most pressing problems to distributing finance and development aid, the involvement of local authorities must be adequately considered and supported. particularly in multi-ethnic and tribal communities, where large cultural differences are often not sufficiently addressed at the central level, local government is the best partner in planning and spending development aid. however, strengthening the role of local authorities in development cooperation should also include the creation of tools to support democratic and effective governance, which often struggles with a number of pathologies at this level: corruption, abuse of power or discrimination against ethnic and cultural minorities. close cooperation between international institutions, local governments and civil society organisations is essential to achieve development goals, to combat extreme poverty and to raise living standards in developing countries. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu has an important role to play in this process. the role it can play is, among other things, through greater involvement of local and regional authorities in this process.
author.– madam president, i agree with my colleagues from both committees. i sent the written question to the commission, but let me add that volkswagen’s manipulations endanger the general reputation of eu car makers and the whole european industry. as chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), which always defends european industry, i want to say that what happened was completely unacceptable. we expect a full investigation and the full accountability of those who are responsible. this has happened while we are negotiating ttip, which is a very sensitive issue in our relations with the usa, but the case shows that we should not be afraid that ttip will lower our environmental standards. america shares our standards and perhaps is even more advanced in scrutinising them. the industry committee stressed two years ago that testing must be improved and harmonised, together with tackling misleading information on fuel consumption and environmental performance, which is very important. the issue has not yet been resolved, so the commission and member states must also investigate whether the case concerns just one manufacturer or whether we might be facing a much broader problem. if that is the case, it will be necessary to look at the reasons. we like to talk a lot about ambitious standards, but what are these worth if they are not technologically realistic, cannot be implemented cost effectively, enforced and controlled? they are not worth very much.
the fact that americans, and not we ourselves, are now revealing to the world that european companies do not comply with the law is simply a great shame for us. we are showing that the member states are not enforcing european law and that the european commission does not have sufficient control instruments. and today we are talking again about what our committee on the internal market and consumer protection has already said many times. my colleague andreas schwab was the author of a report a few years ago, where we called for better governance of the single market. the european commission needs to be very involved, but above all the member states need to be involved, to improve this situation. not so long ago we also dealt with the harmful, very dangerous nitrogen oxides that enter our atmosphere from vehicles, and i proposed that the european commission should have more powers in the regulation on the reduction of vehicle emissions, but many of my colleagues from alde and ecr were opposed to this. i am listening to you today, colleagues, and i hope you have changed your minds, because the negotiations with the council are just beginning, there is still a chance. but let's not panic. i'm not going to let you down. i agree with you that we need to analyse the european market in detail and check how the rules are being followed, and of course we need to regain the trust of the citizens, the trust of european businesses, that they are not being cheated. and the information that is given in the vehicle specifications, but also in the specifications of other devices, is true. we must regain confidence in the european institutions and in the national institutions that they are actually enforcing the law. i'm not going to let you down. we need to move as quickly as possible from lab tests to actual emissions, as you said, because it's a well-kept secret that cars that meet lab standards violate them repeatedly in road conditions. this is about the health of our citizens. the committee is facing a big challenge. we will be... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! it is worth recalling that the information disclosed so far shows that the manipulation of the software activating the emission control system and the activation of the fuel economy mode only for the time of the official test measurements already affects almost 11 million volkswagen vehicles. in reality, however, the case may involve a much wider circle and i would not be surprised if this type of practice also affected other brands. the question is whether this is not the result of an unconditional drive to maximise emissions from transport and an absolute pressure to decarbonise all sectors of the european economy. it turns out that even the largest and richest companies are unscrupulously falsifying the real emissions of gases that are harmful to human health and the environment. it is unacceptable that the costs of this corporate behaviour are borne primarily by consumers, and that it is ordinary citizens who are paying out of their own pockets not only for the stringent environmental standards but also for the unprecedented drive to maximise profits. in this situation, it is the citizens of the european union - the car users - who should know the truth and find out what really happened with volkswagen. this needs to be thoroughly investigated and explained, but above all, lessons must be drawn so that this type of situation does not happen again in the future.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we all agree here that the volkswagen scandal is huge, we all agree that those who have caused it should face the consequences and the legal consequences, because the law has been broken, not only german law, but also european law. but this case also speaks to the real effectiveness of european climate policy: all the biggest proponents of decarbonizing the economy are responsible for this scandal. and so the question is, why, why was this scandal uncovered in the united states? commissioner, is there no relevant office in germany that deals with these matters? and if so, what did the agency do or not do? does the commissioner have that knowledge? it would be good if we knew that.
mr. chairman, please! i don't think this is just a scandal involving one big car company. this is not a single fraud, this is a scandal about the regulatory power of the european union, its climate policy. many citizens have long believed that the union applies double standards to the car industry, that it applies more lax standards than to other industries, that it ignores the environmental pollution caused by the car industry. the transport sector in the union emits a quarter of all greenhouse gases and more than two thirds of these emissions come from road transport. the volkswagen fraud confirms these fears. the fraud was made possible by ineffective tests. the testing requirements should be tightened. the measurement of real in-service emissions is an important tool for achieving this. the whole automotive market should be comprehensively controlled and a total ban on the production and use of diesel engines should be considered in the future.
in writing. the volkswagen emissions scandal is the case of a company that has started to expand in the us market. but this is only the tip of the iceberg, a warning to europe, which is defending itself against the ttip agreement, for environmental reasons among others. this is a broader issue, not just a competition between american and european car companies. it does not require a knowledge of physical chemistry to easily conclude that the maximisation of the energy efficiency of diesel engines, with the aim of maximising co2 emissions, is accompanied by an increase in the combustion temperature, and that exceeding a certain threshold threatens to generate toxic endothermic compounds such as nox. does this mean the end of diesel? i don't think so, the technical possibilities for reducing nox and particulate matter through injection specificity and catalytic elimination, as well as for reducing aromatic hydrocarbons from diesel exhaust gases, are large. what do you want me to do? - new cars with diesel engines should be tested for euro 6 compliance not only during type approval but also during the warranty period, both on the test bench, i.e. 400 mg/kwh, and during driving, i.e. 0.08 g/km; - failure to meet euro 6 standards during the warranty period should be compensated for by the users; - the repair clause should be extended to all eu countries to unlock the innovative potential of smes to combat polluting emissions, especially in central and eastern european countries where millions of cars are registered polluting the atmosphere.
mr. chairman, please! the current catastrophic situation in libya is one of the biggest failures of world politics - mainly european - in the last decade and the result of the unprecedented hypocrisy of western elites. it was only through extensive concessions to libyan oil and gas that gaddafi, previously discredited for supporting terrorist movements around the world and sponsoring numerous local wars in africa, suddenly became a friend of the leaders of some european countries. the new friendship did not last long, however. in libya, the iraqi scenario was repeated. today, the same states that were once closely tied to libya by a thread of not-so-pure economic interests and that have been lobbying for the regime to be overthrown under the pretext of protecting human rights, but in fact more for their influence in the region, are calling on all states to show solidarity in solving the refugee crisis, including those fleeing through the libyan coast. countries like poland, the czech republic and slovakia, for whom ties to the libyan regime sound exotic, are being singled out for public scrutiny for their rational opposition to being held responsible for other north african crises. but former allies of gaddafi, lured by the smell of libyan oil, are no longer allowed to act as moral authorities and to lecture others. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. when i talk about the leaders of some european countries, i mean countries like the united kingdom, france and italy.
mr. chairman, please! we must remember that the first casualty of any war is the truth. if we're missing the truth here, then a lot of our speeches are either full of shallow demagogy or full of vulgar propaganda. it's not gonna let us solve these problems. europe is sick, and the way to cure europe is not to fight the symptoms of the disease. we have to remove the causes of this disease, and the causes remain unknown to us, and that's our main problem. libya, like many other countries in europe, north africa and asia, was destroyed by the western powers. and just as iraq was destroyed before, giving us all the reasons except the real reasons, so now we have a similar situation in libya, where we know a lot about the causes of the state of affairs except the truth. it's not gonna make things any better. we just have to go out and get the western governments to tell us the real reasons why europe is sinking, and we're just here thinking about how to sink evenly and consistently. this is a disaster for european foreign policy.
mr. chairman, please! it has been four years since the arab spring, which led to the removal of the libyan dictator, colonel gaddafi. this was done with the considerable participation of european countries, which supplied arms to the region. the overthrow of the dictator destabilized libya, and the imposition of democracy in that country clashed with a different, centuries-old tradition. today, we have two different centers of power in this country, and the chaos is dominated by the smugglers and the islamic state. it's going to be a direct hit on europe. terrorists trained there are planning attacks on our continent, including the holy see. from there, masses of refugees are heading to our continent, intensifying the migration crisis. the union should therefore be firmly involved in the stabilisation process on the ground, in particular in consultation with the united states and its nato allies, as well as with the north african states.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the council by elena valenciano, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the death penalty (o-000103/2015 - b-0761/2015) (2015/2879 ((rsp))
do you accept a blue-card question from mr korwin-mikke?
thank you for that frank answer. i now give the floor to president-in-office of the council, nicolas schmit.
i would like to inform the honourable members that members of the european parliament cannot use the 'blue card' procedure with regard to council representatives, but can of course do so with regard to other members of parliament.
do you accept a blue-card question from mr korwin-mikke?
do you accept a blue-card question from mr korwin-mikke?
by the way, congratulations on your mission on behalf of the european parliament to kyrgyzstan. do you accept a blue-card question from mr korwin-mikke?
before i give you the floor, i would just like to make it clear to all the members who have applied for this procedure that such an application can be taken into account by the president of parliament before the debate on this item begins, so that those who have already applied during the debate cannot, unfortunately, be given the floor.
mr. chairman, please! we have this debate every year. what's the reason? because we believe that every human being has the right to live. this law is a basic human right. it's a matter of human dignity, it's a matter of natural law. european civilization has gone through this period of capital punishment here, although there are still countries in europe that still use capital punishment there. but i also come from a country where we once -- over 25 years ago -- had a moratorium on capital punishment and then we abolished it. the question is always, do we have the instruments to abolish the death penalty in all countries? it's a process, of course. it's never an easy process, there are always strong arguments from the parties we talk to that they don't want to abolish the death penalty: because it's terrorism, because it's tradition, because it's a deterrent to crime. but it seems that words have power, too. we have many resolutions that have been passed here, that have decided that people sentenced to death for political reasons, for example, have been exempted from that punishment, that they are alive. and this is also part of our policy, which we are pursuing in the european parliament, among other places.
mr. chairman, please! human life is the highest value, except that i think it should be taken into account that we are dealing with different situations where the death penalty is imposed. in all cases, we are against it. but as was rightly pointed out in the debate, in the case of murder, in the case of the most serious crimes, international law allows for this, even though we are trying to get states to step back from this ancient, ancient right. now we have another situation where the death penalty is imposed for such crimes as adultery, political crimes, conversion, drug trafficking. these acts, even these death sentences, even dressed up as court judgments, are judicial crimes. we should have no doubt that the very people who are requesting these sentences, who are passing them, who are executing them, are criminals in the robes of a judge. after world war ii, nazi german prosecutors, judges, and judges were put on trial. i think that such judges who are sentencing people to death for adultery, political crimes, conversion, drug trafficking should be identified and at least blacklisted, unless they are judging in possible situations on the basis of universal jurisdiction.
president of the council. mr president, i could simply conclude what has just been said, namely that the death penalty has no place in the twenty-first century. i thank you for your very broad and very determined commitment against the death penalty. this commitment is also a very clear message to be given to those countries which have not yet arrived, in fact, in the 21st century, as you have said. there is no easy solution. clearly, persuasion is needed at every opportunity. we must talk about it, we must also mobilize our civil society, our non-governmental organizations to effectively attack this practice from another time. international public opinion can play an important role, and i am thinking in particular of all that has been done at the united nations. of course, it is a long process because thousands of people are being executed in the meantime, but i think this debate shows that europe is true to its values in this respect. these values must be made known to those countries which do not share them. we do this by including the principle of human rights in the various agreements we conclude with our partners. but we also have to be realistic. we cannot now block or punish, by refusing any agreement with countries that practice the death penalty, because that would not change them. it will be through dialogue, but also through very clear signals that we will change them. i remain optimistic that one day they too will arrive in the 21st century.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. in completing the debate on the oral question on the death penalty, i would like to recall the efforts of the european parliament, also in the context of the activities of the delegation for relations with belarus, which i chair. these efforts are directed at the belarusian authorities and concern a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, which would be a first step towards its permanent abolition. belarus is the last country in europe that still carries out the death penalty. since 2010, 10 people have been executed in belarus, three executions were carried out in 2014 alone, and another death sentence was issued on 18 march 2015.
the next item is the report by ms lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure (com201(0793) 4 c7-0414/2013 2013/0403 ((cod)) (a8-0140/2015).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. with the growth of cross-border trade in the european union, the need to provide effective and rapid redress mechanisms for both retail customers and small and medium-sized enterprises has become increasingly urgent as a means of supporting their business activities. the proposed amendment to the european small claims procedure raises the amount of claims from eur 2000 to eur 5000 and aims primarily at simplifying the procedures for settling cross-border disputes in civil and commercial matters, reducing the average duration of court proceedings from more than 2 years to 5 months and reducing costs by 40%. the increase in the amount threshold in disputes will further significantly expand the potential range of individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises that can benefit from this new simplified way of pursuing their claims. as the chief negotiator for the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i am pleased that after a year and a half of debates with the council, the latvian presidency has finally managed to negotiate a solution which will now be put to the vote of the european parliament during the fourth luxembourg presidency since the start of work on the document. i am convinced that the new procedure for cross-border claims will help citizens to enforce their rights efficiently, quickly and cheaply. the case is really about billions of euros across the european union, which are small amounts that have not been recovered until now because the costs of litigation and legal services have often exceeded them. the result was a boom in companies that cheated their customers with notorious impunity. the new simplified procedure also provides for the administrative handling of cases without the need to retain a lawyer and without the need to travel to another country, since any hearings will take place, for example, by videoconference, teleconference or other means of distance communication; it allows for the payment of court fees by bank transfer or card (instead of at the court window as was often the case); it does not require the translation of all documents into another language the originals will now suffice, and only a brief description of the case will have to be translated. the costs of a cross-border inquiry will not be higher than the costs of litigation in a similar case in one's own country and will not be disproportionate to the amount of the claim. the original proposal, which i negotiated with the council, was to include certain aspects of labour law in the procedure, which would seem natural in an era of widespread mobility of workers in the european union. unfortunately, the resistance in the council was insurmountable, but the compromise reached includes a revision clause, both on the possibility of raising the threshold for the amount of claims and on the further extension of the procedure to include matters relating to remuneration. i think that with the implementation of this new simplified procedure (which will take place at the latest 16 months after the entry into force of the regulation), the judicial approach in cross-border disputes will finally be profitable and with it, i hope, the end of massive and impunity fraud on customers. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the juri secretariat, the council and commission representatives, my advisers and assistants for their excellent cooperation. the compromise was reached thanks in particular to the contributions of the co-rapporteur, mr daniel boudin, the european commission's mr michael shotter and mr jacek garstka, the latvian presidency's minister for justice, mr dzintars rasnačs, and mr ilze lepiksone, mr vita sliede and ms barbara mekel. i also want to thank alexander keys, linda moldovan and annie czerwoniec for their great commitment to my parliamentary work.
madam president! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those involved in the negotiations on the good outcome of the work on the reform of the small claims procedure. the changes will have two important effects. firstly, the procedure will become more widespread and familiar, and secondly, it will become more attractive to citizens and small businesses in the european union. the most important solutions are, first, raising the claim ceiling to eur 5000 and, second, obliging the courts to use modern communication technologies. these changes will therefore increase the attractiveness of the solution, while reducing the costs of its application also for the parties to the proceedings. this will therefore reduce, inter alia, travel and attendance costs for the parties. this has the potential to make the instrument more accessible and more readily available in europe. it should therefore become a tool that will positively contribute to closing the legal gap gap in access to justice in cross-border cases. at present, many businesses and citizens do not benefit from exercising their rights, mainly because of the costs that are too high in relation to the value of the claim. the most important thing right now is to promote this procedure. we're creating a very interesting instrument that, unfortunately, very few people know about. it can also increase the willingness of small businesses to do business in other countries. a change can remove the fear of having to sue for your rights, even if the amount in question is relatively small. for these reasons, this solution should be promoted also through the european commission and the member states.
member of the commission.– madam president, the compromise parliament has reached with the council will bring new advantages to citizens and businesses. they will be able to use the european small claims procedure more often and at a lower cost. also, the length of the procedure will be reduced. i would like to thank the honourable members again for their cooperation: after today’s discussion i am more confident that you will vote in favour of the agreed compromise.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i just wanted to thank you for your kind words about the quality of my work and our cooperation. i'm glad we're putting a useful tool for the public to claim. it is designed to work by principle: cheaply, quickly and simply. the so-called small claims procedure has been ineffective. first, the citizens were largely unaware of it, and they found it too complicated and expensive, and they often waved their hands, paying money as a lesson in their own naivety or stupidity. and with this tool, we're going to stop this behavior that's been rampant, especially on the internet. i ask you to give your strong support to this initiative, which has been unanimously approved by the legal affairs committee. i'd like to see a similar result in tomorrow's vote.
in writing. by raising the claim ceiling to eur 5000 and obliging courts to use modern communication technologies that reduce the costs of travel and attendance for the parties, the small claims procedure has the potential to become more accessible and more readily used. in the longer term, it should become a tool that will have a positive impact on closing the gap in access to justice in cross-border cases. many businesses and citizens simply cannot afford to enforce their rights nowadays, mainly because the costs of cross-border litigation are too high to be claimed. the most important thing now is to promote the procedure. we have a good instrument that unfortunately not many people know about, both on the part of legal practitioners and citizens. the existence of such a simplified small claims court procedure may, above all, change the approach of many small entrepreneurs to developing their business outside the country. i would therefore like to ask both the commission and the member states to actively promote this procedure, as it is a perfect example of the benefits and added value of civil and commercial law cooperation in the european union. it's worth it for the public to see and feel the benefits.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. the directive we are voting on tomorrow sets limits on dust emissions sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides and introduces carbon monoxide monitoring without setting limits for combustion plants with a capacity of 150mw or more. in short, this directive is part of the air safety package. it also fills the legislative gap that we have between the ecodesign directive, which sets standards for combustion plants of less than 1mw, and the industrial emissions directive, which covers plants of more than 50mw. the emission limits are set at an ambitious level that ensures a gradual improvement in air quality, but also the protection of existing combustion plants and investments. this protection has primarily been extended to small installations of up to 5 mw, which are operated primarily by small and medium-sized enterprises or municipal corporations, or are an important part of the equipment of, inter alia, schools, hospitals, universities, and those which have already been upgraded or built to a high standard, but which would require significant additional efforts to meet the standards imposed by the new directive, such as those using biomass this is particularly the case in the nordic countries. heating plants that supply heat to dwellings in housing estates and thus allow the maintenance of their operating costs and thus the non-increasing of the costs of heat supply to final customers are given special protection. and this is important not just for social reasons, but also for environmental reasons, which i want to emphasize. it allows the promotion of policies to replace individual heating sources, in particular in single-family houses, with collective heating, which is particularly important for certain regions in central and eastern europe and can significantly improve air quality. i wanted to emphasise that the final text of the directive is an example of a good reconciliation of the challenges that arise from the need to protect the environment, economic reality and social needs. we have set ambitious targets, but they are achievable without imposing excessive costs on both operators and end-users. on 23 june, an agreement was reached in an informal trilogue between parliament, the council and the european commission. this agreement was also accepted by coreper on 30 june with only one country voting against and voted in the environmental protection committee on 15 july by a large majority of 59 votes in favour to 6 against. i admit, however, that the negotiations with the council were very complex and that all the provisions of the directive were subject to detailed arrangements, one after the other. this agreement should be seen as a package and changing any of its elements would require a new approach to reading this project. i wanted to thank everyone for their support, especially the whole negotiating team of the european parliament, all the counter-rapporteurs. i also thank the latvian presidency and the european commission for their cooperation, which has led to many very good solutions that satisfy all parties.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! it is good that the final shape of the directive on the limitation of emissions of certain substances into the air from medium combustion plants takes into account the wide range of concerns expressed by different environments. i was particularly interested in the role of district heating systems, which are very popular in many eu countries, including poland. in poland, these plants are based mainly on coal, which is a raw material that we have in abundance. installations in poland have undergone upgrading in recent years as required by national law, so imposing an obligation to further upgrade too quickly would lead to a drastic increase in costs and, as a result, possibly to their closure and to an increase in the use of individual heating systems, which would lead to an increase in emissions, as these systems are more difficult to control. this would therefore be counterproductive from an environmental and health policy point of view. the possibility for states to exempt such installations from the need for stricter limits by 2030 is therefore a matter of common sense. i am also pleased that my amendment to the agreement, which states that emissions measurements should be made under stable conditions with a representative, uniform load, has been included in the final text. the scandal of volkswagen's falsification of emission measurements in a country which is a promoter of emission reductions shows how important it is, on the one hand, to impose realistic mandatory emission reductions and, on the other hand, to carefully monitor compliance with these limits.
madam president! there is no doubt that climate and energy policy, one of the key issues of the european union, is becoming increasingly important in the context of recent crises and events in europe, and is also a major challenge for the european union and its member states, especially when we consider that air pollution emissions contribute to almost 400,000 premature deaths in the european union and that the health costs associated with the emission of harmful compounds range from 300 to 900 billion euros. however, in reference to today's discussion about volkswagen, anyone who thinks responsibly has to ask themselves what have we done to european industry that industry is resorting to fraud or are we not setting too high standards for emissions reduction or is this a one-off incident like the volkswagen case. i am glad that this directive has been adopted with such common sense and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr andrzej grzyb, on his good work and on his taking account of all the concerns of all the parties concerned, because it is very important, i ask you, that the actions of the european union institutions be accompanied by reason, balance and consideration in the decisions taken. i believe that the compromise reached on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, will, on the one hand, protect what is most precious: health, human life and the environment, and, on the other hand, will not create excessive administrative and financial burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector, which could lead to an increase in the cost of heat for individual household customers.
madam president! the report by mr andrzej grzyb is very important. the lack of regulation for medium combustion plants results in a serious legal gap and regulatory inconsistency in the industry. of course we should strive to reduce emissions of harmful substances into the atmosphere, but let us remember that excessive regulations on emissions of pollutants are putting the eu economy out of competition and putting the eu countries at serious financial loss. at the same time that the eu is imposing economically strangling regulations on itself, other major polluters such as the us, china and japan are turning a deaf ear to calls for similar standards in their own countries. this has resulted in increasingly difficult conditions for european businesses to operate and compete, and in the loss of thousands of jobs for eu citizens. we should therefore be particularly careful about such solutions, also to ensure that new regulations are not just another costly but also ineffective regulation.
member of the commission.– madam president, several of you have stressed in your statements that the medium combustion plants directive will improve our citizens’ health, that and the final adoption of this directive will be an important step forward for our air quality policy and that hopefully it will soon be followed by others. many of you have mentioned that the increased use of biomass as a fuel, if not accompanied by adequate pollution abatement, leads to a significant degradation of air quality, and the medium combustion plants directive will enable the environmentally-sound use of biomass as a fuel. it gives the necessary time for upgrading recent biomass plants that do not adequately reduce emissions of particulate matter. some of you mentioned and sought clarification as to how this particular directive would be imposed on the medium combustion plants. the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, and the legislation generally, avoid as far as possible, or minimise, the burden for smes as part of a key objective, and the proposal was designed with exactly this objective in mind. the emission limits ensure the most favourable cost-benefit ratio, and mitigation measures have been incorporated to help smes, such as the phased implementation for existing plants, exemptions for plants operating a limited number of hours, and reduced monitoring requirements for small plants. to my friend mr omarjee, let me say that the situation in la réunion, or indeed in the outermost regions, is not being ignored. the legislation does contain proposals which are applicable in the outermost regions, but member states must take appropriate action to address the air quality situation in those regions while taking account of their specific circumstances. you cannot have the same criteria in those particular areas and islands in the same way as you would have on the mainland, and i know that you would accept that as a legitimate point of view. on behalf of my colleague commissioner vella, i want to thank all of the people who contributed to this debate and again to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, and all the people who have been involved in this particular legislation, for the compromise which has been reached and which has met with almost universal agreement. commission statement the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5 § 4, subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5 § 4 recourse to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a "discretionary power" of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i also thank the commissioner for, in particular, stressing that this is the result of the work of the entire negotiating team and that it is a good compromise that takes into account both important environmental objectives that will contribute to changing the way this environment is shaped and will also contribute to reducing the number of diseases caused, among other things, by air pollution, but it is also a compromise that takes into account the important economic interests of both the small and mediumsized companies mentioned here, but also of individual countries that have smaller or larger problems with medium-sized combustion plants. i also want to thank mr la vii, who was present throughout the negotiation process in the trilogue and who also stressed that member states can introduce stricter standards than the directive on the basis of tests in areas which do not meet air quality standards, taking into account the best available technologies. it is not that the member states are not able to shape their policies in this area. they can also use their prerogatives, which is also important where intervention is necessary, where in particular the air pollution is higher. this introduction of exceptions was also sensible, because we took into account what the options were. and for example, in cases where we are dealing with renewable energy sources, where biomass is used, this biomass has an effect in the form of increased dust content. we decided that if the cost of building a new plant or installing a dust collection system exceeds the cost of the existing one, it would be better to use the plant for a certain period or until it is completely dead, and then allow the construction of a new plant in the future. i would like to thank you very warmly for all the votes, madam president, for the good cooperation and the results we have had with this draft directive, and i would also like to thank you again for all the support you have given us in the course of this project.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the final agreement on this dossier provides for the commission to repeal the existing rules on certain milk proteins, mainly casein and caseinates, and replace them with a new directive. there has been a lot of talk in the previous debates about volkswagen and pollution, but not much in this technical document about casein and casein. they are everywhere: in meat products, in the food industry, in baking, in pastry, in dairy, in the beverage industry, including alcoholic beverages, in special products for children, infants, newborns, in sports nutrition. the ecr group therefore welcomes this initiative, which is linked to the refit programme of our parliament, and we welcome the agreement which was reached quickly and without unnecessary tripartite negotiations. i should like to thank the rapporteur for that.
in writing. as a member from poland, i welcome the commission's proposal to adapt the rules on edible casein and caseinates to changes in eu food law and changes in international standards. every year, people arrive with food allergies, a large proportion of them allergies to cow's milk proteins. casein, which makes up 80% of the proteins in cow's milk, is the most common cause. therefore, the proper labelling of foodstuffs produced using milk products is so important. the consumer has the right to correct and complete information about the product, both as regards its properties, composition, quality and origin. dairy products, as they cause many allergies and intolerances, must be labelled. the lack of such information is extremely dangerous for allergic people, since the intake of casein by allergic people not only causes numerous digestive disorders but also contributes to the degradation of the immune system of allergic people, which is the cause of serious and often incurable bone and skin diseases and even cancers. i therefore fully support the proposed changes and the continuing obligation to provide consumers with full information on the ingredients of the product they buy.
in writing.– in relation to the recent events in kunduz, afghanistan, in which 22 people were killed and more than 30 suffered severe injuries, i would like to express my deepest condolences. the information about that tragedy has shocked me, especially as it was performed by the alleged ‘warriors of human rights’. the hospital bombing was called ‘collateral damage’, and that is what worries me the most – that the developed west is not able to foresee the consequences of its actions and that, as a result, innocent people suffer and die. we are meant to protect human lives, therefore the protection of human rights and humanitarian law is essential. unfortunately, instead of progress, i see regression in that regard. we need to take action to prevent such accidents from happening in the future, because this kind of situation is unacceptable. once again, let me express my grief, and pay tribute to those who were killed and injured.
mr. chairman, please! a few days ago, the united nations announced the success of the international community, its mobilization to resolve the terrible crisis in syria. for us, the member states of the european union, this crisis is one of the greatest threats to our security, alongside the aggression in ukraine. russia has added a flag to this agreement in the form of an intelligence-sharing agreement with iran, assad's syria and iraq. but it seems that information doesn't work. the way russia is engaged, the way they're conducting the airstrikes, it shows that what's really being destroyed is mostly the moderate opposition, the non-islamist opposition to the assad regime. the deputy secretary of defense has demanded the withdrawal of u.s. troops from the airspace and the provision of intelligence... the chairman withdrew the floor.
mr. chairman, please! you, minister, said that the "great scale of suffering at the gate of europe must end". we agree with that assessment. yesterday we had a debate about the huge wave of refugees in europe. we were talking about the evaluation of the last summit on september 23rd. what was missing from that response is, of course, what we're trying to answer today, because the cause of this great migration crisis is syria, among other things. we're trying to work this out with the international community, including regional actors who have different interests. it's not working out. russia is also involved, but we also remember that it may become part of the solution in ukraine. we wouldn't want that. the responsibility for the current crisis lies with the assad regime, because the refugees are the same ones who were expelled as a result of the crisis two years ago. we must do everything we can to end the war, the terror, the rule of the islamic state, because the suffering is terrible, even the suffering of a 12-year-old christian boy who was crucified.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask the member because i am very much in favour of the european union, the wider west, to act actively, in advance does this mean that you are recommending something that is close to my heart, that is: taking responsibility for syria without russia, with the power of the west? what exactly is the activity you're proposing?
madam president! the middle east is in crisis and chaos and conflict. in this situation, turkey is becoming, has become, a country that is more difficult to cooperate with, perhaps less predictable. but we must remember that it is our nato ally, it is a candidate country for the european union, and dialogue, a profound dialogue with this country, is our duty. i support the initiative of the commission and the council, especially on migration policy, with one reservation. the energy dialogue, the energy security issue must take into account the energy security of my region central and eastern europe.
in writing. the mediterranean agreement aims to create free trade zones in the region by eliminating trade and investment barriers. mediterranean association agreements are already in place between the eu and almost all partners in the region, with the exception of libya and syria, and discussions are under way to deepen them. the democratic transformation in tunisia over the past three years can serve as a positive example for other countries that participated in the events of the "arab spring". tunisia is a country with a higher level of prosperity than its neighbours and already has strong economic links with europe. i therefore support and highly value the development of the partnership with tunisia and the commitment to work with the tunisian people and authorities to promote common interests, including trade, investment, culture and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 creating a european order for payment procedure. according to the research conducted in this field, it seems that the already established european small claims procedure has influenced the member states positively by reducing the costs of litigation in cross-border cases by as much as 40%, and also reducing the duration of legal disputes from around three years to a five-month period. that is a huge success. however, it seems that not all of the eu member states use the small claims tribunals, and this has led to situations where more needs to be done when it comes to legal certainty and transparency of proceedings. the amendments to the regulations will hopefully help to stimulate better small claims litigation between the eu member states and to reduce the costs of it.
in writing. ‒ this request relates to small claims procedures up to eur 5000 in civil and commercial matters of a cross-border nature. it aims to ensure effective and rapid redress for consumers and smes in cross-border situations, i.e. where at least one of the parties is resident in a member state other than the member state in which it is established. in the past, it has often been unprofitable to pursue claims up to eur 5000 because of the excessively high costs involved. this created opportunities for frequent fraud that went unpunished. the proposed simplified procedure reduces the burden of taking evidence, allows for the hearing of parties by videoconference or teleconference, and includes methods of court fees, procedures for access to judgments and assistance to parties. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the average size of combustion plants includes residential heating and cooling units for electricity generation, or industrial applications, and according to the european commission there are close to 150 000 in europe. the 2009 and 2010 directives of the european parliament and of the council set emission limits for certain pollutants from small (up to 1 mw rated capacity) and large (above 50 mw rated capacity) installations. the document we adopted today complements the rules by regulating emissions from medium-sized plants (between 1 and 50 mw). in order to improve air quality, the limits set limit pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust and this is a community regulation because only this form of unification of the rules has a chance of success. after all, many air pollutants emitted in one part of the eu can reach another country or region. it was therefore necessary to supplement the legislation with the current provisions. the delay in the introduction of restrictions for newly established establishments will simultaneously reduce costs for both producers and end-users. let's reduce pollution and take care of the environment, but considering the impact of such actions on our economy, especially in countries where energy production is still largely based on coal.
in writing. ‒ the report covers combustion plants with a capacity of 1 to 50 mw that were not previously covered by emission regulations in eu legislation. as these plants emit sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, the european commission has proposed a directive on medium combustion plants as part of its proposed clean air policy package. the limits initially proposed by the european commission were too restrictive and their introduction would have resulted in too high costs for medium combustion plants, of which there are about 3600 in poland and over 140 000 in the eu as a whole. the tripartite negotiations have resulted in a balanced text whose regulations and emission standards can be implemented without incurring costs outweighing benefits. i voted in favour of the text of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on casein and caseinates intended for human consumption because it is a matter of great importance for public health. i supported the proposal put forward by the european commission, as i believe it is necessary to align the requirements for caseins and caseinates with the international standards of the food code, and to introduce a permanent requirement for the proper labelling of foodstuffs produced with dairy products. this is particularly important for people with allergies or intolerances to cow's milk protein, for whom their consumption is the cause of serious and often incurable diseases. most citizens of my country don't want food of unknown origin on their tables. that is why, as a member from poland, i voted in favour of this directive, which in my opinion proposes a correct procedure for placing dairy products on the market.
in writing. ‒ the final agreement on this issue provides for the commission to repeal the existing rules on certain milk proteins (casein and caseinates) and replace them with a new directive. the purpose of this proposal was to align the existing law under the commission's refit programme with the delegated powers and implementing powers conferred on the commission by the treaty of lisbon. the agreement also allows for the updating of legislation on caseins and caseinates in line with the 2002 eu food law and aligns the current eu rules on the composition of edible caseins to the international standards of the world health organisation contained in the food code. i support the refit programme and initiatives that bring current practice under eu food law into line with world health organisation standards.
in writing. ‒ to take account of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts by the eu institutions on their own behalf in regulation no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, the ep amends the proposal to prevent the estimated value of a contract from being determined in order to circumvent the applicable public procurement rules or to split a contract into parts for this purpose; extends the criteria for exclusion from participation in the eu institutions' tendering procedures to include tax fraud, tax evasion and misappropriation of public funds; clarifies and strengthens the differentiation and the proposed early detection and exclusion system; provides for the exclusion or imposition of appropriate financial penalties by economic operators in serious cases such as economic crime or corruption financing; i voted in favour of the report because it strengthens early detection and exclusion systems and makes the procurement and concession award process by the eu institutions fairer and more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on financial changes, as they relate to the implementation of the new eu directives on public procurement. these directives rightly do not focus solely on the cost of procurement, but emphasise that social and labour law and the need to protect the environment should also be taken into account in the public procurement procedure. the bids cannot be assessed solely on the basis of whether they are the most economically advantageous. equally important is whether the people employed in the execution of the tenders are paid a decent wage and whether their labour rights are respected. as the regulation of the european parliament and the council is moving in this direction, i voted in favour of it.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, many have said today that the joint appearance of president hollande and chancellor merkel is historic because it shows that the franco-german engine of europe is still powering on and we have a radiant future in front of us. but do you not think, president hollande and chancellor merkel, that it is at least a part of the problem that one or two countries decide for the rest? all together we are 28, and 28 is far more than two. over the years, the eu of course evolved but my feeling is that its leadership has not. chancellor merkel, events have placed a burden of leadership on your shoulders. your critics say, however – and they may have a point – that you sometimes forget about the difference between leadership and dominance. i get the impression that people across the european union are concerned about that distinction, because it has become more and more a vital question, and that is part of the reason why we face this crisis over europe’s future. people are concerned that their viewpoint does not matter. some are ignored, others are bullied, others still are vilified. people are concerned because they hear this deafening federalist rhetoric, not rooted in reality, and through that thin veil of rhetoric they see a ruthless power-play with president hollande and chancellor merkel as major actors, more powerful than those who hold formal positions allegedly higher in the political hierarchy. chancellor merkel, you spent your early years in a communist country. so did i. i remember a saying from the bad old days that communism is a system which courageously solves the problem it itself created. toute proportion gardée, i think that the same could be said about the european union. we created the euro system, and since day one we have been wrestling with the problems it generated, and solving those problems has led to more dominance and more disregard for the elementary rules of cooperation. turning to the issue of migration and refugees: again a similar story. of course the eu did not create the problem but it failed to identify it soon enough and, let me add, it has not yet entirely succeeded in identifying it. i am just wondering: why invite the immigrants and then cancel the invitation? why play a cat and mouse game with the schengen procedures? why this absolutely unbearable confusion of humanitarian, moral and political arguments that obscure the gravity of the crisis we are faced with? this is not the language of dialogue. this is a language to obscure things. we cannot really talk to one another using that kind of language. it is preaching. it is not a dialogue: it is preaching. and there has been a lot of preaching in this chamber this afternoon – and, as a matter of fact, every day. so, it was your decision to suspend the schengen rules and to open the german border, and it was your decision to close the border again. as far as i know, you did not consult any government, or any european institution for that matter. if this is not proof of dominance, what is? if one wants to have more proof, look at what happened last month at the home affairs council. this is not the right way of doing things. president hollande, chancellor merkel, let me finish with the following plea, if you will. i urge you to be more responsive to reality. the more european hubris is riding high, the more people are being left behind, not listened to, and pushed outside a territory of respectability. this has lasted long enough and it cannot go on forever. european politics needs less self-adoration – of which you had an abundant sample of today – but it needs more freshness, clarity and fairness. otherwise, the eu will increasingly be looked at with reluctance and disdain, if not outright hostility, and we do not want that, do we? (applause)
in writing. for the first time since 1989, we had the honour of hosting the leaders of germany and france on the threshold of the european parliament. 26 years ago, german chancellor helmut kohl and french president françois mitterrand visited here to seal the fall of communism in europe and thus the fall of the walls that divided europe, literally and figuratively. now angela merkel and françois hollande face the challenge of maintaining the hard-won unity of europe. the economic, social and, above all, migration crises are putting us all in a moment of truth. that's why they're so pleased with the arguments and facts of the two heads of state. because the real tragedy is not the unpaid greek installments or the relocation of refugees from the middle east and africa, but the fact that we lost our sense of community for a moment. this is a risk we must avoid, because only a strong europe will give us a chance to overcome weakness. to rely solely on cold, calculated analysis is a step away from selfishness, populism, or even separatism. this joint historic visit, in difficult times for all, is a demonstration of democracy and, i hope, an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between all member states and beyond.
mr. chairman, please! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the european union, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to improve the quality of life in the european union. until now, the financing has been mainly through bank loans. the aim would be to stimulate the retail market and non-bank financing. this is particularly important in view of the possibility of financing the sme sector. taking the necessary precautions while respecting european local markets, the creation of a single capital market can be a real opportunity for the european economy. but my greatest concern is the desire to extend, as it were, the monetary union. i think that in the current economic situation, it would be worthwhile to seriously examine the effects of the adoption of the euro by more countries that are not really ready to follow the other european economies.
mr president, i would like to join with colleagues in welcoming the launch of this long-awaited action plan, in particular the prospect of the variety of tools that this programme might bring about. i would like to raise three points in this context. first of all, the launch of the call for evidence on the eu regulatory framework for financial services. i think it is an extremely good approach to look for feedback from the stakeholders not only on the cumulative impact of the financial services legislation and the possible gaps but also on how individual pieces of legislation interact. however, i believe that this impact assessment must be continuous and not a one-off exercise, because the capital markets union (cmu) is a long-term project and its architecture will only be fully in place in 2019. also, many new issues may arise in level 2 legislation. the second point is related to the fact that the capital markets are transnational and global and therefore, even more so than in the case of banking regulation, particular attention should be paid to european legislation being consistent with the international and global framework and context. regulation must be suited to a global business and, while reflecting the european specificities where necessary, it should also be compatible with regulation in other jurisdictions. the third point concerns the fact that i understand that the cmu should be focused on end-savers and companies whose deposits currently do not find their way to the markets, but it should also encourage investors to commit funding to capital markets. this implies that investors must be protected throughout the process of constructively investing funds. in this context i find that an important element is the regime for central counterparty clearing house (ccp) recovery and resolution, and i look forward to seeing this proposal prepared by the commission soon.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i believe that the objective of the action, which is to adapt the existing rules to the dynamically changing electronic payments market, has been achieved. the new directive not only ensures a regulated legal situation for many newly emerging forms of payment, increases the security of the consumer who makes these payments, but above all regulates in many cases the situation of appropriate competition in payment markets, offering all operators on the market equal opportunities. i particularly appreciate the fact that in working on this text both parliament and the council have tried to be careful to introduce legislation that is technologically neutral.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i respect the economic freedom whereby companies are governed by profit first and the law second. however, in the case of nord stream ii, i have doubts about both. firstly, it is difficult to talk about profits, since the existing infrastructure for the transmission of gas from the east is only half used, and the laying of pipelines on the seabed is much more expensive than on land and can also have adverse environmental effects. secondly, nord stream ii is contrary to the energy security commitments of all member states and is part of the abuse of a dominant market position by one supplier, which is currently being investigated in the antitrust proceedings by the european commission against gazprom. in conclusion, this project cannot be considered purely commercial, since it brings the political tensions known from the construction of nord stream i, it differentiates eu countries from the point of view of energy security, it threatens our partners covered by the neighbourhood policy, it divides us, it does not connect us, and, in addition, it is economically difficult to justify. we expect the european commission to take all possible steps to stop nord stream ii in the event of non-compliance, just as it has succeeded in stopping south stream. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. apparently, the translation was inaccurate. i said something completely different. our current eu connections to the east are only about 50% used. and half of that capacity is in the connections that we have now, so it seems very strange and unreasonable to build new connections when we don't use the connections that we have now. i guess something went wrong with our arrangement.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a few years ago, during a debate, i asked commissioner oettinger why germany was taking part in the nord stream gas pipeline, even though the european parliament had strongly opposed this investment in its recommendation. the commissioner indicated that, in the light of the regulations in force at the time, he would never again have decided to support this investment. when i asked commissioner oettinger again last year why germany had given the right to use the opal pipeline, which is an extension of the nord stream pipeline, to gazprom, i received a disarming answer that it was a private initiative and the german government had no influence on its implementation. a few weeks ago i asked you, commissioner, about the commission's attitude to the construction of nord stream ii in the context of the implementation of the third energy package and the creation of the energy union, for which i am the rapporteur. the answer was the same as before, and today you also reiterated that this is a private initiative, which the commission has no influence over. nord stream will deliver 110 billion cubic metres of gas per year, which represents more than 50% of the eu's gas imports. this is totally contrary to the idea of diversification and security of supply in the light of the requirements of the european energy union. it particularly affects the countries of central and eastern europe, which are left to their own devices in the face of the dominance of supplies from the east. the current situation provides grounds for member states to review their climate protection commitments and implement their energy policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind, and that the energy sector is not left behind.
mr. chairman, please! kindly acknowledge that it is private companies that are doing this pipeline, but this, please don't make fools of us, that in germany and in russia there is no government blessing. you can't do this kind of thing without rules. mr. arias cañete is trying to tell us that the second nord stream line is to increase the diversity of supply. please, please don't make us look crazy. that has nothing to do with it. of course, mr. zoltán balcho is right. that was a bad translation, professor kiss. what he meant was that this second wire plus half of the current transmission capacity is to possibly divert supplies that go through ukraine. ladies and gentlemen! i just want to say one thing. we're dealing with gazprom undercover agents everywhere, including, i suspect, the european commission. for example, i was surprised to see that the greens are fighting against coal, nuclear and shale, which is everything that gazprom does not supply, and by a strange coincidence the greens have a lot of money for their various actions. if the european commission, which sees nothing wrong with poland being exposed to... (it also bypasses poland), joins in. the operation of nord stream outside poland provides opportunities for blackmail against poland. gazprom is not doing anything like this yet, but at any moment poland can and should protect itself from this. in any case, i think that if the european commission sees no danger here, then i would have to say that there are gazprom agents in the commission too, except perhaps they are just idiots.
mr. chairman, please! the northern pipeline was and is an instrument of russian pressure on the countries of my region, including ukraine. it's undermining our security, and not just our energy security. on the union side, it constitutes a breach of the principle of solidarity. i have similar reservations about the newly created turkish stream. the economic nature of both projects is simply a matter of russian propaganda and should be of interest to the cells we are creating to counter russian strategic communication.
mr. chairman, please! reducing europe's dependence on imported energy sources, especially from one direction east, should be a key element in building the european union's energy security. in this context, it is difficult to consider nord stream ii as an investment compatible with the interests of the community, the foundations of the european union and the european energy security strategy. so we have a curious situation here. on the one hand, all the strategic documents of the european union emphasize the need to significantly diversify energy sources and supply routes, but on the other hand, investment projects are being undertaken and accepted that will make the member states even more dependent on russia. it is also clearly untrustworthy in this context that some politicians claim that this is a private, commercial project that cannot be interfered with. it should be remembered that, for example, the german state is a co-owner of some of the companies that signed the agreement with gazprom. it is therefore difficult to believe that german companies would have acted on such strategic long-term matters without the knowledge and consent of the government of the federal republic of germany. nord stream ii will not only pose an economic and political threat to the community, but also bring direct economic losses to some member states, for example poland and bulgaria, and to associated countries, for example turkey and ukraine. the latter already estimates its losses at around 2 billion euros per year and calls the project, quote, 'a betrayal of the eu's ideas of solidarity'. for these reasons, mr president, the european union should intervene to stop this project.
mr. chairman, please! the energy union is a single competitive energy market on the one hand and the achievement of europe's climate goal on the other. energy efficiency is the key tool to achieve this. the doubling of the northern gas pipeline could have a significant impact on the construction of the energy union as well as on security of supply. looking rationally and forward - ignoring political non-negotiations, long-standing disputes and fears arising from historical experiences that cannot last forever - it must be admitted that the construction of the second strand of the northern gas pipeline is a good idea. the conversion of gas energy into electricity is at least 20% more efficient in terms of physicochemical efficiency than the conversion from coal, while the co2 emissions are 40% of those from its combustion. but there's another very important efficiency aspect - the high flexibility of electricity generation, which goes hand in hand with wind power. gas turbines are the perfect way to be efficient during what's called peak demand. the builders of the first nord stream understood this very well, they understood the geopolitical superiority of this project. however, a community method supervised by the european union is necessary for a new project. investment with branches to eu countries in the baltic region, which will allow for community exploitation and pricing. i also think it's a good idea to consider going back to the idea of jamal ii.
mr. chairman, please! i want to remind you that my country, poland, has been protesting against the nord stream project since the beginning of the talks. we believe that this is an investment in the energy security of central and eastern europe. we believe that it is incompatible with the principle of solidarity which applies in the european union, including in the field of energy. it cannot be that subjects of european law agree on a draft which is consistent with the cardinal principles of that law with subjects of a state which is not even a member of the european union. and that is what is happening today with the tacit approval of some of the countries of the european union. moreover, the construction of the nord stream 2 pipeline is contrary to the efforts to increase the energy security of the union economy. the northern gas pipeline is destabilizing security, almost condemning the european union market to a monopoly of gas supply. in practice, this means building energy security for just one member of the european union. so where is the solidarity we have heard so much about in the context of the refugee problem, especially from german politicians? i have a short question for the commissioner: has the nord stream project been analysed for its compliance with the requirements of the third energy package?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the nord stream 2 investment project is primarily a political rather than an economic project, as the existing capacity of nord stream 1 is only 50% used. moreover, the implementation of this investment by the big western energy companies with russia's gazprom, which regularly abuses its dominant market position and against which the commission has been conducting antitrust proceedings for several years, is a flagrant disregard not only of european legislation but above all of the principle of solidarity enshrined in the draft energy union, which is supported by the governments of the 28 member states. if the governments of the largest eu countries are demanding solidarity from the countries of central and eastern europe on the issue of immigrants, then as the representative of the largest of these countries - poland - i demand that the principle of solidarity on energy security, enshrined not only in the energy union project but also in the lisbon treaty, be respected and that the implementation of this investment, primarily russian, be blocked.
mr. chairman, please! i think that everything has been said in this chamber today, and i shall confine myself to what i believe is the most important issue: solidarity and respect for the law, the foundations of the european union. there's been a lot of talk about them in europe lately. today, in this room, those values have been altered by almost every circumstance. it is not acceptable that solidarity should be a guide for all member states in some cases and be measured by economic efficiency in others, as is the case with nord stream 2. if it is otherwise, then i, as a european, and most of my fellow citizens in the european union, will be stripped of all illusions.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. plans to build additional pipelines to the nord stream gas pipeline, given the eu's high dependence on gas supplies from the east and the abuse of a dominant market position by a single supplier, are not justified. the economic justification is also questionable, since the decision to invest is purely political. the existing transmission capacity is, after all, used at 50%. the project, bypassing ukraine as a route for the transport of gas from the east, will have a negative impact on the already difficult economic situation of the country. it will also weaken its negotiating position significantly and indirectly weaken transit countries such as slovakia. the commission notes that the investment is in line with the principle of subsidiarity, which is the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 3 of the treaty on european union. it was agreed that all gas contracts should be checked for compliance with eu legislation and eu-wide energy security priorities, and financial and regulatory support should be granted only to projects that diversify both sources, suppliers and routes of gas supply to the eu and its neighbours. energy security of the eu and its neighbours should be strengthened by supporting, for example, the southern gas corridor, which supplies the market with gas from the caspian sea region, or lng imports from existing and prospective suppliers such as the us.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the council and the commission by ms linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on the renewal of the union action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation (council: o-000109/2015 - b8-0762/2015, commission: o-000110/2015 - b8-0763/2015) (2015/2754 (rsp))
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015 at 12.00 hours. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on the updating of the gender equality directive at the workplace is best illustrated by the fact that the rapporteur, ms záborská, has to submit a separate opinion to the rapporteur herself. this document, which should be a pragmatic attempt to tackle the problem of wage and treatment inequalities in the workplace, is full of ideological, subsidiarity-violating interventions about the need to integrate gender issues in vocational education and training, the need for legal recognition of gender change, excessive administrative burdens in the form of audits. it's curious that in the report, all references to objective biological sex have been replaced by socio-cultural gender. motherhood is a social role reserved for women, and not surprisingly, it also affects their careers. of course, action must be taken to compensate for the wage gap. however, the way to do this is not to impose further information obligations on employers. these key competences are relevant in the labour market and the actions of the european union should not suggest that women are less competent. unfortunately, the femm committee is unable to take a pragmatic approach to this issue, which is why the ecr group will vote against it.
in writing. according to available data, women are better educated than men, but this does not translate into their position in the labour market. statistically, women are less active in the workplace, earn less in the same job and are underrepresented in decision-making bodies in different areas of the economy. the data show that if the current trend in the increase in female employment in the eu continues at the same level, the europe 2020 employment rate of 75% for women and men aged 20-64 will be delayed by 18 years. addressing labour market disparities requires coordinated action at european and national level in cooperation with employers and trade unions. to increase women's participation in the labour market, we need an effective family policy aimed at facilitating work-life balance, including through the provision of good quality childcare. in addition, women should be facilitated to re-enter the labour market through appropriate training and vocational counselling. we also need to promote more women's employment, support their entrepreneurship and their active participation in decision-making processes. i also draw attention to the role of education in promoting equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market and in combating gender stereotypes and discrimination.
the author. despite the efforts of the international community, the humanitarian and security situation in the central african republic remains dire and is even worsening. the european union's mission, the bridge mission, was a success, as also appreciated by the sede members visiting the central african republic, but it seems to have been too short-lived. a series of unfortunate events in the functioning of minusca the un mission has prevented it from effectively fulfilling its mandate. i appreciate the commitment of the un secretary-general, the security council, but it seems that the international community should step up its efforts to support the central african republic. this could be a hotbed of really dramatic radicalization and deterioration of the security situation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the central african republic is one of the poorest countries in the world and, as many colleagues have said, is facing the worst humanitarian crisis since independence in 1960. as a result of the conflict between the christian south and the muslim north, more than half the population is in need of immediate humanitarian assistance. 20% of the population are refugees, internally displaced persons, displaced persons. it is important that the european union has increased its support to the central african republic not only in the form of humanitarian aid but also in the form of development projects in the areas of health, job creation and the economic integration of women. but i call for a stronger political message on issues such as peace-building, security and respect for human rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thailand is a country that we europeans know, mainly because of the very pleasant times we have spent in this country, and it is a tourist destination for many people from the member states of the european union. but politically, thailand is less pleasant. of course, this is about events that have been going on in this country for two years, since the great opposition protests, since the imposition of martial law in this country. it seems that thailand, one of the 'tigers' of southeast asia in economic matters, needs to hear very clearly from our parliament, from the european union, the demand for real democracy, because this is what this nation absolutely deserves. i believe, and my group believes, that we must not only monitor the situation in thailand very clearly, but also make it clear that our economic cooperation, the cooperation between the union and thailand, will depend on whether or not human rights are respected in that country.
madam president! the six-year conflict in northeast nigeria has already claimed more than 20,000 lives and displaced more than 2 million people. given the social structure of nigeria, where over 40% of the population is under the age of 14, a huge number of those affected by the conflict are children. murder, separation from parents, sexual violence, lack of access to medical care, education, and hunger become a daily part of their childhood. to improve their situation, comprehensive action is needed to improve both the overall political and economic situation in the country and to provide humanitarian support. in this context, i am pleased that the commission allocated an additional eur 21 million in june and recently announced a further increase in funding for this purpose. however, it should be borne in mind that nigeria's needs still far outstrip the aid offered and that further efforts are needed in this regard.
madam president! what is happening in nigeria is an act of particular barbarity, what boko haram is doing. i am, like many of my predecessors, a strong supporter of the european union taking and supporting all measures that effectively bring humanitarian aid to the people of nigeria: women, displaced children, the disabled. we must also ensure that the nigerian authorities are under constant pressure. but like congressman belder, i would like us to talk about this with our heads held high, without internal censorship. it is this group's hatred of christianity that is the source of this barbarism. it should be very clearly stated: our brothers in the faith are dying because they are christians. it should be very clearly stated in the resolution as well.
madam president! a few months ago, it seemed that boko haram was on the defensive, that the actions of the african union countries and the support for the nigerian government would make us hear less and less about this dramatic problem. but today we see again that boko haram is active, and europe cannot turn a blind eye or keep its mouth shut, because we talk too much and we don't realize that what is happening in africa, from the sub-saharan region to the great lakes region to central africa, is one of the greatest geopolitical dramas of our time, and also an incredible humanitarian drama. europe must once again, in cooperation with the african union countries and the nigerian government, think not only about how to propose further resolutions, but how to defeat and eliminate boko haram.
in writing. i strongly support the efforts of african countries and the international community against boko haram. the european union and its member states should undoubtedly become even more involved in the fight against one of the most ruthless terrorist groups. i voted against the provision on full access to sexual and reproductive health services. i feel the same way about the central african republic. it's one of the poorest countries in the world, with incredibly complex problems, on the brink of civil war and a huge humanitarian crisis. providing unfettered access to abortion doesn't solve either of them. i know this because i was the sede mission chair this year to bangui. the polish gendarmerie played a significant role in this. there i also met polish missionaries who had dedicated themselves to serving the people of poland, even in times of extreme tension. they were the ones who helped women and children in their darkest hour. women are particularly vulnerable in all armed conflicts. this will be discussed at the next sede meeting.
in writing. in the last five months, the islamist boko haram have forced half a million children to flee their homes. the group, which has recently gained control of many towns in northeastern nigeria, is murdering civilians, abducting women and girls, and forcibly recruiting boys and young men into its ranks. children are fleeing and being sent by their parents en masse to the south of the country and beyond, mainly to cameroon, chad and niger. one of the main goals of boko haram, besides imposing sharia law, is to fight western education. 10.5 million nigerian children are out of school, and over 600 nigerian teachers have been killed by terrorists. recognising that education is one of the most important factors in ensuring sustainable development and a pillar of a stable society, i call on the president of nigeria and the newly elected federal government to take decisive measures to combat extremism and to protect civilians, especially children, and to ensure safe conditions for their lives and development, including education.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of the vote of 7 october 2015, in which the european parliament adopted a resolution on the death penalty, strongly condemning its use and supporting any action to abolish it. the death penalty is still widely used in many countries around the world. according to the latest data, at least 2466 people were sentenced to death in 55 countries in 2014, an increase of almost 23% compared to 2013. such sentences are imposed for crimes such as drug trafficking and distribution, acts of terrorism, but also for homosexuality and adultery. the legal basis for such a declaration is determined by the country's legal system, tradition, culture and religious beliefs. in this context, i express my deep concern about the increasing use of the death penalty. the abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of our community and its application is incompatible with the fundamental principles of the european union as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. our resolution calls for the immediate abolition of the death penalty and for reforms to the justice systems of those countries which still provide for it.
in writing. ‒ the total abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of the european union's human rights policy. thanks to the efforts of international organizations and social change, more than 160 united nations member states have now abolished the death penalty or do not use it. however, last year nearly 2,500 executions were carried out in over 55 countries, a significant increase over previous years. the increasing use of the death penalty in the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking is particularly worrying. it is therefore necessary to take further diplomatic, political and economic steps to eradicate this inhumane practice. the european parliament resolution calls on the european external action service, the european commission and the member states to step up their efforts to abolish the death penalty in the world. for these reasons, i have decided to support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, a waste tank at an aluminium smelter near the city of ajka in hungary burst, releasing nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline so-called red mud. several nearby villages were flooded, 10 people were killed, about 150 were injured, and a significant area was contaminated, including an area protected by the natura 2000 programme. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the disaster in hungary exposed shortcomings in the application of eu legislation and in inspection methods. the oral question to the commission and the council on this matter concerns the lessons learned from this disaster, in particular how the relevant legislation can be properly implemented and whether the institutions would favour the adoption of an eu mechanism to enable financial claims to be made in the event of similar events. the experience of the disaster in hungary shows the need for a more effective prevention system and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ ensuring equality between women and men in employment and work is one of the european union's priorities. the member states have adapted their national regulations to ensure that they comply with union law. the european parliament's report is generally accurate in outlining the difficulties in applying directive 2006/54/ec, but when it indicates what action the european commission should take to address the issues, it points to solutions that are sometimes highly controversial. examples include the requirement to introduce gender balance on boards of listed companies, the audit of the remuneration structure of companies with exclusionary sanctions against companies, or the curious proposal to impose the burden of proof on the employer that he is innocent of the alleged discrimination. beyond these examples of interference in the private sphere, there are vague proposals for the public sphere, such as the call for gender budgeting by states. these and other issues make the document presented imprecise and many of the proposals almost impossible to implement. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that women are the group most affected by development inequalities. poverty, unemployment, ethnic and religious conflict, lack of access to education and health care, and religious fundamentalism hit women particularly hard, whose position is not well protected by law or custom in developing countries. unfortunately, once again in this house, the reasonable demands have been mixed with the standard slogans of leftist ideology. the issue of so-called 'reproductive rights', which include, amongst others, free access to abortion, is not the answer to the problems of development inequalities. putting this problem in this document is a mistake. the preparation of a second action plan on gender equality would be a great opportunity to highlight the special role of women in society and to identify the areas where the discrimination against women is most flagrant. unfortunately, despite the many worthy points in the resolution, such as the need to strengthen the role of women in economic life, combat sexual violence in armed conflict, increase women's access to education at all levels of education and stop the cruel religious practices to which women in muslim countries are subjected, i abstained from voting on the text.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of a draft resolution on gender equality and women's empowerment is a clear signal to the european commission that action on this issue needs to be accelerated. every year, 14 million girls are forced into marriage worldwide, and 62 million are not in school. in many countries, discriminatory laws and practices continue to deny women basic rights, access to employment and political and economic participation. this not only limits women's personal development, but also hinders their countries from achieving economic and social adjustment to the norms of the democratic world. women should be safe at all latitudes. the promotion of cultural change at institutional level and the emphasis on the eu's role in the international arena must be clearly visible in the text. women's health and reproductive rights must also be respected, especially now in areas of armed conflict. the real test of the effectiveness of our policies will be when women in developing countries start to feel the difference in the way they are treated by their local communities. we must do everything we can to keep our promises and put them into practice as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the application of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment. there is no doubt that the gradual elimination of the gender pay and pension gap is necessary. however, i regret that the european parliament has once again voted in favour of a report that promotes such demands as gender parity and lgbt issues. i believe that the commission's guidelines would be a better solution for the harmonisation of the definition of labour law concepts such as the gender pay gap or equal pay for equal work. as a member of the european conservatives and reformists group, i do not support the imposition of mandatory pay controls in publicly traded companies or the mandatory disclosure of average pay by gender for individual positions, as these would represent an additional administrative and financial burden for companies.
in writing. ‒ the principle of equal pay for equal work is an integral part of eu law and one of the key foundations of anti-discrimination policy in the member states. in practice, however, the average gender pay gap in the european union remains constant at 16.4%, and the so-called total pay gap, which takes into account the gender employment gap, is as high as 39%. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, as it recommends the introduction of practical solutions to reduce the pay gap, such as job classification and evaluation systems based on clear and comparable criteria. at the same time, it points out that the full closure of the wage and salary gap and the related pension gap also requires broader action in the form of an effective work-life balance policy that ensures equal participation of women and men in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ discrimination, as a social and economic phenomenon, is clearly an evil that must not be tolerated. the deliberate exclusion of a group from access to the labour market on the basis of gender, political beliefs, religion or ethnicity is contrary to the rules of democracy. however, equality is not a concept that can be considered in abstract terms and detached from social reality. it is not possible to require that there be equal representation of women and men in every area of life, that the choice of each position is determined primarily by mathematics and gender parity, rather than by the competence and experience of the candidate. the demands to encourage and encourage member states to include transgender and intersex people in diversity training, as well as the need to take gender into account in vocational training, which is also mentioned in this report, must be considered absurd and difficult to accept. once again, we have an example of using the noble idea of the need to empower women in the labour market to promote extreme leftist ideology and justify social experiments. the call to the european commission to hold member states accountable for failing to introduce explicit protection against gender-based discrimination is also scandalous. i am surprised that some of my polish colleagues supported such a call.
the question asked by raising the blue card. (...) may come to europe statements by representatives of the european union authorities, from the incentives of organised criminal groups that encourage illegal immigration. even if this migration crisis is structural, even if it is a geopolitical process, the task of the union's authorities is to mitigate this process, not to intensify it. saying "come, come" is not going to get you anywhere. this is not only to the detriment of our countries, but to the detriment of the people who are encouraged in this way.
in writing. i am following with concern the debate on the refugee crisis. i consider that the mandatory amounts imposed on the member states in this area infringe the principle of sovereignty and subsidiarity. i regret that the european parliament has supported the measures adopted by the council in an emergency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. in the face of this crisis, the causes of the crisis must be tackled in these countries on the ground, so that their citizens do not have to leave their homelands. a quick emergency response will not solve the problem in the long run. europe, including my country, poland, cannot afford to take in all the immigrants.
madam president! i do not support this project because, like most of the documents coming out of the envi committee, it avoids a pragmatic approach to the subject, relying instead on the demonization of coal and the imposition of a phase-out of the use of this raw material by the member states. such projects violate the principle of neutrality and infringe the competence of member states to decide on the structure of their energy needs. the fact that emissions can be changed pragmatically without excluding any energy source is demonstrated by the example of japan, china, india, which are promoting supercritical coal combustion technologies, which lead to emissions reductions of up to 30-40% and significantly improve the efficiency of the units. this can be of enormous importance for countries where reducing emissions means compromising energy security, as in the case of poland. unfortunately, the text of the envi report does not even allow for such an option. these data can be found in the report of the clean coal centre or the international energy agency. so i do not agree to limit poland's energy security, because energy security equals national security in poland. one of the most frequently used words in parliament is solidarity. why is it not present in the polish coal-based economy?
madam president! if we don't know what it is, it's almost always about money, and in this case it's about big money, which is kind of the subtext of this debate. we have to be aware of this to understand the phenomenon we're talking about. well, it's true that co2 emission limits have been set. carbon dioxide emitted by human activity is of little importance to nature and to the content of this dioxide in nature, but it is of great business importance. well, the countries that were developed earlier are taking advantage of the limits that they've already reached and now they would like to charge fees to buy those carbon limits from the countries that are developing. so rich countries want to maintain their wealth at the expense of the taxes they take from those developing countries that want to develop. and that's the essence of the problem and that's what we have to understand.
madam president! there's no doubt that we need to stop global warming, but there it is: it's a global problem. and we're only going to solve it if the countries that emit the most greenhouse gases join our efforts. only then will the european union become a true leader. a leader is someone who is followed by others, and now it looks like we're a lone long-distance runner. the absence of an effective, legally binding global climate pact on the one hand puts the eu economy at risk of losing competitiveness and jobs, especially in energy-intensive sectors, and on the other hand it also undermines the sense of our climate efforts, the climate efforts in the european union that the union has been making for a long time. cop 21 must therefore end with an agreement in which the rest of the world commits to match the eu's efforts. otherwise, we will have to seriously rethink our eu climate goals, and our global partners, whom we want to persuade to agree, should know this; we should inform them that we do not want to fight climate threats alone.
on behalf of the group. - madam president! - i have to go. the charter of the united nations contains the principle of the non-use of force in international relations. russia is responsible for the aggression in georgia, the annexation of crimea, is the real party to the conflict in ukraine, but it was at the un that vladimir putin proposed to the west a coalition in syria. these two issues, ukraine and syria, cannot be treated separately. this principle of separation of cases was applied to russia's predecessor the soviet union in yalta. we, the peoples of central and eastern europe, will do everything to prevent a second yalta.
madam president! let me try to explain the situation of poland: we have always been between two enemies, between germany and russia. and that's when everything changed, when independent ukraine, belarus and lithuania cut us off from russia. and at that moment our potential enemy became ukraine, which has territorial claims on us, which during the war murdered a few hundred thousand poles, and these bannermen were then stored in germany, and that's why we are very afraid of a situation where poland will be between germany, where it is not known who will rule, because it was once the weimar republic, and then suddenly the third reich appeared. i don't know if the fourth reich will ever appear. therefore, for poland, a potential ally is the enemy of our enemy, that is russia, please understand this. we are very happy that ukraine has to keep a large part of its troops in the east, not on the border with poland, because we do not know when the banderites can come to power in ukraine.
madam president! i would like to assure you that this is not really some exotic country, but a country that is just beyond our borders, and this is a matter that absolutely concerns us. if the russian intervention or the economic situation in ukraine deteriorates, it will mean that tens, hundreds of thousands of refugees, emigrants from ukraine will want to live in european countries, for example in poland. this is a serious problem, we must give ukraine support, including economic support, but also - let's be frank - we must demand some real reforms from it. this is a two-way street.
madam president! unfortunately, russia's policy of softening the union's position seems to be having an effect. because how do we understand jean-claude juncker's shocking statement on 8 october that we must strive for more productive relations with russia and that things cannot go on as they are? what did the president mean, because unfortunately it's not that russia is finally going to end its aggression and crimea should be returned to ukraine as an integral part of it according to international law? what does it mean that, as president juncker went on to say, russians must be treated decently? maybe russia should treat other countries, including ukraine, but also georgia, decently? unfortunately, the fact that business with gazprom has been resumed in the nord stream project, that pressure has been put on ukraine in paris to implement the political part of the minsk agreements unilaterally, even though the separatists and russia are not fully fulfilling their commitments, shows that the union's previously firm position is becoming more and more uncertain.
madam president! i look at this debate from our experience of the last three months and first of all it is good that we did not forget about the issues of ukraine, because there was a moment when we had the impression that ukraine was going to some future stage. secondly, we also have to realize that in that time we have started to understand russia better, and i think it's a positive thing that the minsk agreements are more or less being respected. i mean, i'm consciously saying "more or less". it's a given time for ukraine, too. i support the voices that have been heard here that ukraine should use this moment for real reforms. we, as the european union, expect a kind of economic, social vision, a concept of a ukrainian state without corruption, because this is our duty, and on the other hand we must also be aware that we need quick support - i also agree with these views - poverty, scarcity and hunger, and winter in ukraine, and let's remember: winter in ukraine is not winter in cannes.
in writing.– the ongoing crisis in ukraine began almost exactly two years ago, when the then-president yanukovych suspended preparations for the implementation of an association agreement with the european union. today, the crisis is still far from being resolved. the crisis has had many effects, both domestic and international. according to an october 2014 estimate by the world bank, the economy of ukraine contracted by 8% during the year 2014 as a result of the crisis. from the beginning of this conflict situation i have supported ukraine and strongly believed that the eu must provide all of the help and assistance to help to resolve the conflict in ukraine. as in the independent state it is up to ukrainians to determine their future, not russia, nor the eu. nonetheless the eu must continue to strengthen relations with ukraine and assist its national authorities in any way needed.
madam president! it's not just islamophobia and anti-semitism. christians are also persecuted, and we cannot ignore this. so let's not just talk about jews and muslims. europe, as we can see in the perspective of 2015, is being swept by a brown wave -- a wave of hatred towards the foreigner, towards anyone who is a member of a minority, and the words of the online elites, which we have often spoken about today, are only an emanation, their unprecedented scale is also an emanation of this wave of hatred. in this context, i would like to ask the commissioner about the criminal codes in the member states. does the european commission monitor the criminal law and how the criminal law is used in relation to hate crime? do member states have the appropriate rules? are they being used? do hate crime cases result in convictions or just suspensions? are we training police and law enforcement to recognize hate crimes and how to interpret hate crimes lawfully, because the education we've been talking about today is clearly not enough? we have been in education in europe for decades, and you can see that despite this education, we have now a return to xenophobia, racism, homophobia, sexism and various isms and phobias that are now accumulating. i think it is also time to look at the hard instruments that we have in the member states, and that instrument is criminal law.
ladies and gentlemen, we are ridiculous. mr. jakovčić is talking about the fight against holocaust denial. after all, mr. jakovčić, millions of copies of holocaust denial in arabic are published throughout europe. has there been a trial for this? how are the islamist demonstrations in the street, are there hateful cries it's filmed, these people are famous has anyone prosecuted these people who speak hateful speech? no one did. the arabs think we're a bunch of idiots who are just going to keep it to themselves, and they'll just cut our throats, because if someone can't defend themselves, if someone tolerates an attack on themselves, and fights people who want to defend themselves against attacks, then at this point, they deserve only to have their throats cut. we must stand up for ourselves, the law must be the same for all, including muslims.
madam president! many colleagues have spoken of the numerous acts of anti-christian hatred - there is no shortage of them, not only in the world but also in europe. many of us have heard of the holy parson of ars, one of the most beautiful figures in our history. in the diocese where he is buried, the bishop had to remove the eucharist from all the churches because it was so often desecrated. there are many cases of hatred against christians under our government, for example in refugee camps. the prime minister of thuringia recently spoke of this, perhaps enigmatically, about the need to separate certain communities, but public opinion knows what is at stake. i would like to ask: what is the status of silence on anti-christian hatred, silence during this debate, because we are very much complaining, and this silence is itself an act of contempt that compromises the principles to which the european union refers.
in writing. we can define human greatness as respect for difference. this difference is primarily expressed by a different skin color, nationality, religion, or gender. and that brings us to another very important word, tolerance, which is respect for someone's views, beliefs, tastes that are different from your own. the word comes from the latin word tolerantia, meaning "patient endurance", and the verb tolerare, meaning "to endure, to bear, to suffer". nowadays, we use it to mean tolerate and accept. the opposite is intolerance, which is discrimination, xenophobia, bigotry in all sorts of spheres, like religion, politics, customs. the internet has become a tool for spreading hate speech, or "hate speech", in recent times. the feeling of anonymity, often coupled with self-confusion, is the main reason for attacking others. attacks through actions as well as words both spoken and written. further, a factor that contributes to this is the false sense of impunity for such acts. it should be noted that the hejt is no longer a phenomenon aimed exclusively at celebrities. we also see him every day. whether it's in the form of offensive comments under private photos on facebook, or on online forums, or in articles on popular social media sites.
in writing. the rise of intolerance and the increasingly unspoken hate speech require the search for ways to curb these phenomena. the radicalization of attitudes is always facilitated by growing fears. today, the economic and refugee crises are the main drivers. in the 1950's, american psychologist gordon allport identified behaviors that can lead to escalation if ignored. the "pyramid of hate" he has created consists of negative comments, avoidance, discrimination, physical attacks, extermination. historical examples support this model. the council of europe has defined 'hate speech' as 'all forms of expression which propagate, incite, support or justify racial, religious, xenophobic, anti-semitic or other forms of hatred based on intolerance, including intolerance expressed through aggressive nationalism and ethnocentrism, discrimination and hostility towards minorities, immigrants and persons of foreign origin'. hatred and intolerance come in many forms. these may be jokes told among friends, drawings on walls, publications, advertisements, and increasingly, public statements by radical politicians that are translated into election ads. so each of us should respond to hate speech by demanding that hate signs and signs, hate websites be removed, and by notifying law enforcement agencies, which must be obliged to accept the notification. but the most important thing is to look at the causes of the phenomenon in depth, to act effectively in three directions: prevention education prosecution.
madam president! last friday, five days ago, the united nations security council adopted resolution 2240 resolution on the competence of our countries in the operation in the mediterranean sea eunavfor med. but that's not what i want to talk about. this resolution, among other things, states that among the people, among the migrants who are in camps in europe today, there are also people who fit the definition of refugee in the treaty. it was not a statement to the contrary that there are people among refugees who do not fit into this category, but that there are also people among immigrants who qualify as refugees. yet, despite the fact that the whole world is seeing the reality, the president of the european commission has today reiterated that he will present proposals as early as next year to pave the way for some partial legalisation of illegal immigration. these are statements that undermine the very meaning of our cooperation. i respect that.
madam president! i just wanted to say a few words about refugees. well, the general consensus is that these are people who are fleeing, say, from syria to greece. look at the map, these people are not fleeing syria to greece. it's impossible to cross the bridge from syria to greece. they're coming from turkey, these people have been to turkey, and the right of asylum is in the first country they go to. this explains why it's mostly men who leave their wives and children behind in camps in turkey, not in syria, and then come to greece and the rest of europe. that's all there is to it. mr. jakovčić left unfortunately, and i wanted to explain that it was a misunderstanding, i did not say that we are idiots here, our entire civilization has become stupid, because it condemns, for example, the denial of the holocaust, and arabs in arabic in millions of copies deny the holocaust, and we do not react. we're ridiculous for that.
madam president! in view of the difficult situation on the eu animal markets, the european commission has proposed emergency support for milk and meat producers and has allocated eur 420 million to this end. farmers in my country, poland, are allocated less than 7% of this amount, or nearly 29 million euros, and i believe that this allocation does not take into account the enormous impact of the drought disaster that has struck our country. so far, crop losses have been estimated at over eur 1 billion and beef and dairy producers will also suffer serious losses in the coming months due to the lack of bulk feed, which will only increase these losses dramatically. in a situation where the income of polish farmers is among the lowest in the union, and where polish producers are paying fines for overproduction of milk for the second time in a row, the commission's proposal is downright discriminatory. i ask the commission once again to analyse the effects of the drought on polish agriculture and to provide adequate support for the extent of the losses farmers have suffered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council implementing decision setting a deadline for the entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on access by designated authorities of the member states and europol to the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of its review, for the prevention, detection and prosecution of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences, as this is a matter of the utmost importance for public security. i supported the council implementing decision with its retroactive application from 1 september 2013 as i consider it extremely important to ensure the continuity of law enforcement access to the vis. the adoption of a council decision is essential to ensure an effective exchange of information between the member states of the european union and europol in the fight against crime. most of my countrymen want to live in a safe country. that is why, as a member from poland, i voted in favour of this council decision, which in my opinion proposes appropriate standards for the protection of public security.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the council implementing decision fixing the date of effect of decision 2008/633/jha concerning access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by designated authorities of member states or by europol for the purpose of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. generally, the proposed decision seeks to replace the decision 2013/392/eu which was annulled by the judgment of court of justice of the european union, in which the court maintained that effects of the decision 2013/392/eu until the entry into force of a new act intended to replace it. i see no contraindications why this decision should not be implemented. it is pretty straightforward, it does not cover any controversial issues, and it aims to protect the union, which is one of our fundamental goals.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to express an opinion on the date of entry into force of a new implementing decision aimed at ensuring an adequate and effective exchange of information between member states and europol in order to combat cross-border crime (the so-called vis visa information system). the decision follows the judgment of the court of justice of the european union which annulled the original council decision no 2013/392. the court maintained the effects of the previous decision until the date of entry into force of the new decision. in order to ensure the continuity of the vis, the council proposed that the new decision 2008/633/jha should apply from 1 september 2013. the report accepts this proposal, is purely technical and uncontroversial and has not been the subject of any amendments during the committee stage. i therefore voted in favour of adopting a resolution approving the draft decision 2008/633/jha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposals submitted on draft amending budget no 6/2015. the document provides an overview of the forecasts of the contributions to the budget by the member states: from traditional own resources based on value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni), as well as an overview of some deductions to be made by selected countries. such verification shall be carried out annually amending budget no 6/2015 is routine. the changes will reduce the overall level of member states' contributions by eur 1.4 billion compared to the eu budget adopted in 2015 and will also change the level of member states' contributions. both the total unlimited vat base and the total limited vat base were reduced by 1,3% compared to the budgetary assumptions of last year. the total gni base was increased by 0,4%. the project also provides for the introduction of two new budgetary institutions for trust funds managed by the commission and modifies the staffing plan of the berec office.
in writing. ‒ it is very pleased with the positive result of the vote, which allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument under the annual ceiling. the mobilisation of these instruments allowed for a financing complement of eur 66,1 million in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015. this will make it possible to finance precisely defined expenditure that could not be covered under the ceilings. this amount will be used to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis, which shows above all the willingness of the european institutions to act in this area. the overwhelming majority of meps voted in favour of this solution reflects the seriousness of the situation and the belief that time is of the essence here. it is clear that the migration crisis will be a problem for the whole of europe for the next few years, maybe even a dozen years. the decisions taken by parliament today show our long-term preparation for the challenges ahead.
in writing. ‒ the current situation of the flow of refugees into europe is one of the most serious challenges facing the european union today. the european commission's proposal to mobilise a flexibility instrument outside the multiannual financial framework to finance the management of the migration and refugee crisis seems most appropriate. the eu budget should be a flexible tool to respond to emerging needs and challenges. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the launch of this instrument and the allocation of an additional 66 million to manage the current crisis. it is worth noting that some member states supporting the establishment and declaring support for the eu regional trust fund in response to the crisis in syria and the eu trust fund for africa are delaying the transfer of the corresponding funds to these funds.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 7/2015 concerning the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate measures under the european agenda on migration. considering the current migration crisis and the urgency to find the quickest and the most effective solutions, i believe that adopting the dab no 7/2015 is crucial. even though i understand that not all of us may agree with what is happening with the migration crisis and are sceptical of the decisions made by the eu in that regard, we have to consider the fact that steps have already been taken. and since there is no ʽgoing backʼ from those decisions, it is important not to stay firm and actually help to find ways that will burden our economy as little as possible. indeed, i believe that this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will help us activate all the necessary measures needed for dealing with the current migration process without harming the economy of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the project submitted. on 30 september, the commission proposed two options for the continued financing of actions related to the refugee crisis: draft amending budget no 7/2015 and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. as the increase in the number of refugees and migrants was not foreseeable at the time of adoption of the current multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 and cannot be considered as a temporary phenomenon, long-term solutions have become necessary. the commission has proposed to mobilise this instrument in title 3 at a total cost of eur 66,1 million above the limits of the multiannual financial framework (eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017). this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the railway network and the supply of electricity to the railway undertakings.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the draft amending budget for 2015 is parliament's response to the crisis of the mass influx of migrants into europe. the project provides for an increase of eur 80 million in the assistance from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and eur 20 million in the assistance from the internal security fund (isf). in addition, 120 additional posts are provided for frontex, europol and the european asylum support office (easo). since the beginning of 2015, more than 500,000 migrants have entered the eu. the costs of this unexpected influx were not foreseeable at the time of adoption of the current multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. a budgetary adjustment was necessary in response to requests from those member states which currently receive the largest numbers of migrants italy, spain and greece. these countries deserve immediate community assistance, since they bear the greatest economic burden of the wave of immigrants. the european union should seek to resolve the current crisis as quickly as possible. it will be necessary to mobilise additional financial resources to ensure the effective protection of our community's borders. long-term solutions are also required, which should be taken into account in the annual budgetary procedures and in the revision of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the budgetary initiative on budgetary measures to respond to the syrian refugee crisis and mass migration to europe. for almost a year, i have been highlighting the need for humanitarian and preventive action in areas outside the eu in countries that have already taken in several million refugees, in various community fora. we have to appreciate the efforts already made by lebanon, jordan and turkey. financial support is an expression of real effort, not just moral support. by working for refugees in these countries, we also alleviate the pressure of immigration to europe. we realize that the measures we have taken are not enough, they do not solve the problem (they cannot solve the problem), but they make the lives of refugees more humane and they also bring relief to the countries in which they are staying.
in writing. ‒ the immigration crisis that has hit europe in recent months has its origins in the eu's neighbouring countries and should be tackled there first. we need to provide concrete support to our partners and allies in the middle east, who are hosting the largest wave of refugees from conflict-affected regions. we need to mobilize financial efforts to improve the living conditions in refugee camps in jordan, lebanon and turkey, which are struggling with overpopulation and the problems that come with it. we can do this by working with the united nations high commissioner for refugees and the world food programme. the commission is also proposing to extend the cooperation to include financial support for these institutions. we should also do everything we can to strengthen controls at our external borders. the images we saw in hungary can never be repeated. i therefore fully support the move to the 2015 eu budget to start implementing these objectives as soon as possible. a strong and consistent approach at eu borders and in safe countries is really the only way to ensure the safety of both genuine syrian refugees fleeing the civil war-torn country and the citizens of the member states who need to be assured that the external border of the european union is secure and secure.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that climate policy is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in terms of sustainable development, health and the global economy. we must take care of the environment not only for our own health, but also for the future generations who will also benefit from the same environment. the continuing climate change, from melting glaciers to frequent droughts and floods, requires a rapid response from the international community. and that's the response that's going to be the paris climate agreement. i am fully convinced that efficient, global action based on international solidarity is the right thing to do, but it must be done responsibly. the objectives should be reasonable and not harmful to the economy. first of all, those which do not eliminate many jobs or reduce them in part. they must not place undue burdens on industry. the financing of the proposed measures remains an important open question. by 2020, developing countries are to receive $100 billion a year to help finance greenhouse gas emissions reductions and other projects to protect vulnerable populations from the effects of climate change. i hope that the provision of new funding will, however, be the basis of the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the climate change we are currently witnessing requires urgent action on our part, as it could lead to irreversible risks for societies and the entire biosphere. it is therefore essential that all parties to the climate negotiations make specific commitments to meet this challenge - one of the greatest challenges of modern civilization. the european parliament's report on the new international climate agreement to be concluded later this year in paris is the right step in the global fight against the changes that are taking place on our planet. but i think that there are many provisions in this document which, if implemented, would lead to a disruption of the european economy, an increase in unemployment, and, in the end, an increase in poverty in europe. it is clear that if the fight against climate change is not global and is confined to europe, we will not only fail to achieve our objectives, but worse, we will significantly reduce the competitiveness of our economy. some companies will move their operations outside the eu to save their profitability. others will go bankrupt or severely limit their activities in europe. i therefore decided to vote against the ep report because i believe that the position it outlines that the european union should present in the climate negotiations has not been properly balanced.
in writing. ‒ the 21st un conference on climate change (unfccc) is to be held in december 2015. it is widely believed that an international agreement on carbon emission limits will be reached. the agreement would take the form of a protocol or other legally binding document binding all parties to the unfccc. the envi committee decided to draw up an own-initiative report based on the commission communication on the paris protocol of march 2015. unfortunately, the report echoes the myths about the harmfulness of coal that have been repeatedly repeated in the eu institutions. such projects violate the principle of neutrality and infringe the competence of member states to decide on the structure of their energy supply. the introduction of further co2 restrictions will be of enormous importance for poland, negatively affecting the country's energy security. the restrictions that the eu has put in place so far, with poland at the forefront, are sufficient, and if the major emitters do not commit to restrictions at cop 21, the union's action in this area will continue to be pointless. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ there is a very tangible cost to making climate commitments, which no one in this institution wants to remember. this is a high price to be paid, especially by poland, for whom coal is a source of energy and economic security. the climate is constantly changing. it was changing before the industrial age, too, although the dogma that human activity is the major cause of global warming seems to be accepted by many. the paris climate summit, which raises such high hopes for a binding global agreement, will only show once again how far the european union is ahead of a number of world economies in its demands for decarbonisation. big players like china and the united states, despite declarations to reduce co2 emissions, calculated to win the approval of left-wing public opinion, will never give up what really shapes their prosperity an industry based largely on the use of fossil fuels. of course, we should look for ways to reduce our use of natural resources and to be as efficient as possible in their use, so that they last as long as possible. however, this should be done gradually and taking into account the interests of countries such as poland, which has no alternative to coal. the eu is offering to liquidate a key industry and sell us expensive green technologies. is this what european solidarity should look like?
mr president, i am a member of the committee on transport and tourism (tran) so, on its behalf, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent job indeed. the objectives of the tran committee were as follows. first, that the new directive should ensure that consumers’ benefits from the higher level of protection when purchasing a combination of travel services are guaranteed. secondly, at the same time, it is necessary to establish a level playing field between market players and selling travel packages. then, removing legal obstacles at cross-border level and reducing compliance costs for business people. concluding the outcome of the negotiations between the council and parliament, we welcome the fact that the committee on internal trade and consumer protection in good co—operation with the committee on transport has achieved the following: a strong insolvency protection for travellers which would cover all reasonably—foreseeable costs and clarification of travellers’ rights. let me be very clear, it responds to the challenges related to internet development in travel arrangements.
in writing. i welcome the proposal to adapt tourism services to the realities of the digital age. customers are increasingly renting hotels, cars or buying airline tickets online. these services should be subject to the same protection as services purchased directly from travel agents. in addition, the rules for derogation from the contract should be simplified and it should be established which of the operators is responsible for the proper performance of all the tourist services. this would undoubtedly strengthen the rights of travellers in europe both those who use several services in the same trip, so-called linked services, and those who use single services. it is important that travel service providers clearly inform travellers of their rights and which particular provider is responsible for the proper performance of the service. however, eu member states must incorporate the new rules into their national law, which should take place within two years at the latest.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her report. i welcome this proposal as important and much needed because it is essential to control the export of goods which are used for the death penalty and torture. in order to prevent such degrading treatment from happening, it is important to use all available tools that are specifically designed to act as anti—torture solutions. however, we must not forget to find a proper balance between the genuine interests of companies and the potential use of certain goods for capital punishment. moreover, we need to come up with a thorough monitoring mechanism in order to prevent the abuse of restrictions imposed on exporters of medical products. that being said, i can fully support the report voted in the inta committee.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you, mr president! we thank mr schöpflin not only for building consensus but above all for presenting such a draft report straight away, which is intended to revitalise the institutions. we have already seen in the first phase that the proposals put forward by the rapporteur have been designed to remove bureaucratic constraints, to do everything that is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions, and the report also contains solutions that deal with the most sensitive points. and we need to tell them. this is a question for the european commission first of all: will it be prepared to reduce its own arbitrariness, to limit its own arbitrariness, because that is the essence of the matter? what happened to the one of us initiative supported by huge numbers of citizens and rejected by the european commission should not happen in the future. i believe that any initiative supported by the required number of signatures should be the subject of real legislative work. and the big question for the european commission is: will it respond to this call in the report by a new draft amending the regulation on the european initiative, because that will be the real test? the report is very good i thank the rapporteur once again but now the decision is up to the commission. the commission will decide what happens next. i also call for this political right to be real, not fictional. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! ebola has taken its toll in three west african countries: guinea, liberia, sierra leone, and it has proven lax in the international community's response, with the world health organization leading the way. in addition to the lack of resources and capacity of local and national health systems in these countries to prevent and eradicate infectious disease outbreaks, the consequences of this crisis are disastrous for economies and security across the region. the role of humanitarian organisations, which were more effective than institutional actors in helping the sick and providing basic protection, was invaluable. as international actors, we need to create a platform for dialogue and cooperation with local authorities and build trust among communities affected by the epidemic, so that misinformation is prevented and people feel comfortable asking for help and have the security and medical care they need. the engagement of the union and the member states in the field of humanitarian and development aid is important. eu investment in health will certainly contribute to economic development and poverty reduction in these countries in the long term. additional funding under horizon 2020 and the innovative medicines initiative, as mentioned by commissioner stylianides, could accelerate the development of new therapies for infectious diseases.
in writing.– the ebola crisis, which escalated in spring 2014, is a real challenge, not only for the countries such as sierra leone, liberia and guinea that have been afflicted by it the most, but for the whole world. throughout the period of time that has passed since the epidemic started to evolve, i have observed that each government, each organisation had mobilised itself in order to prevent ebola from spreading. indeed, that crisis was actually a sort of a natural ‘test’ for the international community, and i am glad to say, that so far, we have passed successfully. however, we must not forget that the fight is still on and we should not surrender. i have already realised that even in such a dramatic event, we have decided to learn from it, rather than let it defeat us. helping the countries that still struggle with the disease must continue, the same as us making efforts to prevent the outburst of similar future crisis.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's a big debate, it's a bit of a shame that at this late hour, when people usually watch movies, there were some big money robberies. this is also big money, money that needs to be controlled so that the european union, the eu institutions, have more authority, more acceptance among european taxpayers. very specifically, as regards the european institute of innovation and technology institute based in budapest it should be noted that the institute has introduced additional ex post controls on grant transactions and has improved the quality of control certificates received for grant transactions by improving the relevant instructions. the institute also now uses (this has changed) a more detailed and consistent certification methodology, and has improved its procurement procedure. so, to sum up, there's certainly some progress, some improvement, in terms of the level of certainty or the legality, the correctness of transactions, especially those related to subsidies. that level has definitely increased and that's something to be noted. however, it should be noted that this is the second time in a row that the court has issued a qualified opinion to the institute. it should also be emphasised that the quality of certificates for around 87% of grant expenditure was compromised because they were issued by audit firms acting on behalf of the grant beneficiaries. that's a huge and unnecessary exposure to the possibility of certain abnormalities. the further activities of the european institute of innovation and technology should be examined, as the two qualified opinions indicate that the institute is not functioning, or at least has not functioned in the past, properly. at this point, the focus should be on monitoring the institute's compliance with the changes. as far as artemis and eniac are concerned, they do not, in my view, require any further discussion. i won't discuss them here specifically because they've been merged into ecsel. we'll see what the actual, real-world actions of this new entity will be. as regards the council and the european council, as i have already pointed out on numerous occasions, both in my previous reports and in speeches, the council, as an institution of the union, should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the european union insofar as it is a beneficiary of the union budget. unfortunately, there is still - i stress this all the time - a lot of unresolved issues, because the council has persistently, in a fairly predictable way - i would say ironically - not responded to the european parliament's calls for regular submission of relevant documents and explanations. hence the proposal for another (no longer surprising) refusal to grant discharge on our part, on the part of the european parliament. i think that this match - unfriendly, unkind, not building the authority of the eu institutions - between the european parliament and the council must finally be stopped. we are waiting for the council to show good political will.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm speaking at a very special moment in my life, but i'll tell you about it at the end. i'm referring to what i heard. we have indeed already had the green light to show the european institute of innovation and technology, and it is good that we have shown it, because it has turned out that this institute can function and work better than before. some progress is also because we've forced them to be more efficient, to work more. as for the council issue, six months ago we had a situation where we showed a yellow card, but as the old polish proverb says, "grandpa said to the picture, and the picture to him not once". we have a situation where we all, as representatives of political groups, say that we can differ, but that is absolutely unacceptable. fifth year in a row, same problem with the council. mep soltész says that citizens expect mep soltész is right. president gräßle says it's a scandal that's a strong word, but it's appropriate because really the council is stubbornly refusing to cooperate. it just can't be. congressman arnott is right, of course, in saying that this is a "never ending story" in his native language. in short, we must be resolute in this matter. this is a matter of the honour of the european parliament, of our responsibility to the citizens. i think we must not give up here and we must use all the pressure we can to get the council to talk. we just want a partnership, nothing more. thank you very much, and i just want to say that this is a very special moment in my life. at this moment, i just found out a second ago, my son has been elected to the polish parliament for the second time. i'm not hiding the fact that i'm happy about this.
mr. chairman, please! a week ago, a young iranian christian convert was beaten to death in a hamburg facility. although this is a terrible act, it is not the worst manifestation of anti-christian hatred that has been meted out to christians by people pretending to be refugees, for it is certainly hard to compare with throwing people into the sea, for example. but what happened to this young iranian is something special. we don't know his face, we don't know his name, and the deaf silence of the media, and the deaf silence of the political class that surrounds this terrible case, shows what the real state of free speech in europe is today, and what the ethical sensitivity of people who are so eager to teach us about their so-called values is.
this is indeed the biggest and most anticipated regulation for eu citizens that we are dealing with today - and the most anticipated for a long time, because we are finally setting a date for the final abolition of roaming charges. this is the step we've all been looking forward to. from 15 june 2017, operators will not be able to charge consumers for additional charges for the use of telephones or for data transmission in the european union. we have finally managed to break the council's resistance to this matter and i congratulate my colleague del castillo very much on her determination in this matter. and i also greatly appreciate commissioner ansip's commitment. i am confident that with it the european commission will quickly propose appropriate rules on wholesale prices, which will actually and significantly reduce the costs of providing roaming services for operators. i wish it had happened sooner, but as of april 30 next year, we're going to see a drop in them, because the operators will only be able to add to our accounts what they actually pay to the operators overseas. but what we also managed to achieve was a compromise on net neutrality, and i'm very happy about that. i quote briefly: 'internet access service providers treat all data transmissions equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference, when providing services.' but let's be prepared to amend the law if necessary. some of you are complaining of dehydration. however, we must remember that the digital environment is changing and evolving very rapidly and dynamically, and our regulations must be adapted to this.
in writing. the abolition of roaming charges across the european union is undoubtedly a huge success. i am convinced that this decision will not only make life easier for millions of europeans, but above all, it will give many entrepreneurs the impetus to take full advantage of the digital revolution. however, i regret that roaming charges will not be fully abolished until 15 june 2017. in this context, it is welcome that the current caps on international charges will be significantly reduced from april 2016. it should also be noted that the abolition of roaming is not absolute, since it is limited by a fair use clause allowing the addition of wholesale charges in the event of abuse or for the use of telephones only abroad. but i think that the common market is the common market, and that is why i am against this solution. another issue of crucial importance for the proper functioning of the single market for electronic communications is network neutrality. i hope that the solutions adopted in the regulation will guarantee that every user will have equal access to all services on the internet and that all traffic on the network will be treated equally. however, if in practice it is found that the current arrangements do not keep pace with the dynamic development of the digital world, they will have to be adjusted.
mr president, the numbers do matter, but i am afraid the numbers do not balance. it is said that this year 700 000 migrants have come to europe, but we have also been told that 800 000 people have come to germany, and that every day 5 000 people cross the austrian border. there are also the balkan countries and the mediterranean countries. one does not have to be very good at mathematics to know that the first number – 700 000 – is not correct and should be higher. chancellor merkel said in this chamber that in the coming years about 60 million people will probably leave their homes in turbulent areas in search of a better future elsewhere. president tusk said that what we have been going through now can be compared to the great migration of peoples from prehistoric times. if at least a third of those 60 million people come to europe in the coming years, we will have a new medium-sized nation on our territory. so what conclusions can be drawn from these numbers? first, by avoiding the problem of numbers, i am afraid that the politicians are concealing the gravity of the issue. second, the instruments that the eu has proposed are certainly not adequate. third, i have an unpleasant feeling that the instruments are used more to assert the eu’s power over nation states than to face what is possibly the greatest challenge that europe has confronted since the end of the second world war. so this strategy has failed, but it is hardly any consolation in view of what the future might bring.
mr. chairman, please! i fully agree with the diagnosis that president tusk has made, that migration is a challenge that is changing not only europe, not only the european union and the system within the union, but also a challenge that is affecting the political systems in individual countries. the 710 000 migrants who have entered europe at the present time (if this number is, of course, entirely true) bring with them a number of humanitarian and existential problems. this is a challenge for many of the countries where these migrants are found. but i think it's good that the union has agreed to this, and that we should first of all help where the sources of migration are: in africa and the middle east. and these decisions were made at the summit on september 23rd. it's good that we all agreed that the priority should be to protect the borders. you cannot consistently help those who are already in the european union if the border is leaking like a bottle of wine. this is a sort of trigger for further emigration, regardless of whether there are places where the humanitarian crisis, like in syria, will continue to affect emigration. a billion euros in aid has been agreed for refugees in the middle east. the question, of course, is whether that's enough. after all, no amount of money is enough when there's a humanitarian crisis. but i think the decision to help turkey is also important. without this support, turkey - a country with over 2.5 million refugees - would not be able to help stem the tide of migration. this is where the member states have to contribute. there is also some hope for improvement in libya. and that's where we need to help, and i think that all the international aid and cooperation, including the united nations, is effective in addressing this great humanitarian crisis. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i didn't talk about what groups are among those who came to europe, how many are real political refugees there, and how many are those who are migrant workers. it requires evaluation. if there was a normal registration system in the place where these refugees show up, we could say that. at this point, we don't know. we know that it's about seven hundred thousand, over seven hundred thousand by september of this year. but that recognition is really just ahead of us. and here, in this room, both the president of the european council and the president of the commission have said that unfortunately this also requires the help of professionals who are able to help identify the real motivations of migrants coming to europe.
in writing. ‒ the council's proposed decision amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation is a further step towards making tax avoidance more effective. this is particularly relevant where those actions are undertaken by natural and legal persons established in the union with the assistance of financial institutions established in third countries. in its report, the european parliament endorses the draft council decision, while regretting that some improvements could not be made, particularly as regards the scope of the exchange of information and the automatic, mandatory and unhindered nature of this exchange. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted against the council decision adopting a protocol amending the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on measures equivalent to those laid down in directive 2003/48/ec. the agreement is to be updated in the light of the change in the legal status on which it was based. the proposal to repeal directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income and the amendments to directive 2014/107/eu on administrative cooperation that extended its scope made it necessary to modify the content of the existing agreement. the amending protocol implements the oecd standard on the automatic exchange of financial data in tax matters. this makes it possible to effectively combat tax avoidance, which eu citizens have used financial institutions located in third countries to do. i therefore voted in favour of the council's decision to adopt the amending protocol.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted a non-binding opinion on the repeal of directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income. it aims to introduce a uniform standard for the exchange of financial information in tax matters. the amendment of directive 2014/107/eu on administrative cooperation, which will introduce the oecd global standard for the flow of such information in the european union as from 1 january 2016, has made it necessary to adapt the existing rules to the new legal situation. in order to avoid the parallel application of two standards, i consider it necessary to repeal directive 2003/48/ec. at the same time, given the risk of possible legal loopholes in relations with the 12 associated territories, i support efforts to agree as soon as possible on appropriate agreements with non-eu-regulated entities. the need to combat tax avoidance and to avoid imposing unnecessary burdens on businesses has led me to vote in favour of the resolution as it stands.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, the supply of personal data provided for in this decision may not commence until the data protection provisions have been implemented in the national law of the member states. poland, belgium and sweden completed the data protection questionnaire as well as the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data and carried out pilot projects. on the basis of the overall assessment carried out, the council concluded that those countries have fully implemented the general data protection provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to launch in poland the automated data exchange for fingerprint data. it is one of the pragmatic steps to improve cooperation within the european union in the effective fight against terrorism and international crime. poland has already adapted its legislation to the union's approach to the protection of sensitive data and the exchange of dactyloscopic data. moreover, and very importantly, this has been confirmed in practice by a successful pilot operation with austria. this means that poland will be entitled and prepared to transfer personal data to the authorities of other eu countries and to receive similar information itself. no doubt this is helpful in the fight against crime.
in writing. ‒ the report contains the conclusions of the negotiations between the institutions accompanying the second reading on the amendment of the package travel directive. the directive has been in force for over 20 years and is seen as an effective and useful tool for consumer protection in the travel and tourism industry. the amendment aims to adapt the legislation to new practices in the tourism industry, including the move away from comprehensive package holidays towards self-organised holidays via the internet. such bookings are not covered by the protection provided for under the directive, for example in the case of the consumer's return to the country in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel service provider. the directive aims to resolve this conflict while maintaining the ability of online travel service providers to innovate and offer the best deals to consumers. i therefore supported the amendment which will help to clarify and improve the situation of consumers, while at the same time reducing the burden on tourist event organisers.
in writing. ‒ the tourism industry, which is often undervalued, is very often a driver of economic growth in most countries and has a significant impact on gdp. the european union should therefore act to develop this sector. one of the more important elements should be, firstly, to support, mainly in access to external sources of finance, especially those small and medium-sized enterprises. on the other hand, it is necessary to take steps to deregulate the tourism sector. at the same time, it is necessary to take account of consumers of tourism services, who, due to the specific nature of the sector, require special protection. as we know, it is extremely difficult to combine all these elements and to balance and maintain the right symmetry in the entrepreneur-client relationship in the tourism industry. i believe that the council's position at first reading on tourist events and related tourist services was not appropriate, and that is why i have decided to vote against the recommendations for the second reading of the european parliament, and i believe that in the future a compromise will be found which will take into account the interests of both the providers and the recipients of tourist services.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased with the outcome of the european parliament's vote today on the final form of the ep and council regulation on the european single market for electronic communications. we have thus completed the final stage of the legislative work on the introduction of regulations that will ensure net neutrality and the abolition of roaming charges throughout the community. these issues have long been in need of settlement. the final abolition of roaming charges in the eu is planned for june 2017. the regulation is the result of long-term parliament negotiations and efforts to improve consumer rights across the eu. in 2014, the commission presented the results of a survey which showed that 94% of europeans limit their use of internet services when travelling abroad precisely because of the cost. the european union should make a continuous effort to look after the well-being of its citizens. the regulations will remove outdated business practices in the telecommunications market and remove barriers that have prevented the free use of digital services. access to the internet is a human right and the digital future is one of the pillars of a modern and strong europe. unifying the rules on networks and roaming calls is particularly important as it affects millions of eu citizens and will have a significant impact on their lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing measures relating to open internet access and amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union. i believe that the negotiated agreement is beneficial for the citizens of the european union, as it will free consumers from roaming charges from june 2017. the compromise also includes rules to protect the open internet in line with the principle of net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i support the comments in the recommendation for second reading of the instrument laying down measures for the position of the european council on the eu regulation on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union and on the single market for electronic communications. among the many positive decisions taken in the documents covered by this recommendation, the most important one concerns the abolition of eu roaming charges as of july 2017. at the same time, the current fees , already significantly low compared to non-european countries, will be reduced once again from april 2016. in an era of highly intensive electronic communication, with the telephone being used almost constantly, mainly for data transmission over the internet, this decision is of great importance and is next to the possibility of traveling without a passport one of the key symbols of community and integration in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the text of the agreement at second reading lays down rules on the abolition of roaming charges when travelling within the eu from june 2017 and the introduction of rules to secure the open internet in the eu, in line with the principle of 'net neutrality'. from june 2017, mobile phone charges when travelling in the eu will be the same as at home for a monthly subscription for free calls, sms or data transmissions abroad within the eu, the charge will be the same as at home, without any additional charges. these rules will prevent abuses, such as when a customer buys a sim card in another eu country where prices are lower to use it at home. the regulation also introduces important consumer protection measures, in particular providing access to information on their rights in roaming and the use of facilities and the power to detect possible breaches of the open internet principles. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of roaming charges in the european union is a reality. the commission notes that the price reduction is not a decision that will take effect immediately, as it will be fully effective from june 2017, but that customers will already experience a significant price reduction from 1 april 2016. this decision and the benefits it brings to eu citizens show how much good can be done when the eu institutions focus on addressing a specific problem that is really making life difficult for citizens in the member states. the situation where freedom of movement is associated with the costs of absurdly high roaming charges, especially for data transmission, has not been adapted to the requirements of the digital age. fortunately, the resistance of the telecommunications companies was overcome and the matter was settled. however, the proposed solutions are not absolute and contain a number of safeguards to protect the market through so-called shopping tourism. this solution addresses the specific needs of people travelling within the european union, but is not intended to introduce a mechanism of competition between telecommunications operators operating in the member states. i voted in favour of this solution because of the benefits it will bring to the citizens of the european union. i believe this is a good forecast for the future and a harbinger of the positive changes that will come from working towards a digital single market in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report, which aims to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide and the prevention of torture through eu controls on the export of goods used for torture and drugs used for lethal injection. i particularly welcomed the introduction of a clause allowing customs authorities to detain any goods, whether or not listed in the annexes, which are reasonably suspected of being used for torture.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a leading and responsible actor in the fight against the death penalty and the elimination of torture at global level. the european parliament's report aims to tighten current rules on so-called ancillary services related to the transfer of goods, as well as transit, technical support and the introduction for commercial purposes of goods that could be used for capital punishment. the amendments to the report, which envisage the creation of a periodic review mechanism and a more systematic exchange of information and reporting in order to strengthen surveillance and effective implementation of the regulation, seem to be a very appropriate amendment to the commission proposal. in my view, any effort to abolish the death penalty and to prevent torture should be introduced and promoted in all areas of eu policy, especially trade policy, which is why i decided to vote in favour of parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's proposal to extend the scope of automatic exchange of information from cross-border to all tax interpretations and the suggestion to introduce an immediate exchange of information instead of a periodic exchange will require more work from national tax authorities. i am also aware that the increase in the amount of information exchanged will also require a number of changes to national reporting requirements. however, if the stakes are to curb tax fraud or the use by some entities - especially large corporations with a strong global legal base - of existing loopholes in legal systems to avoid paying taxes where they actually do business, then i am sure that it is reasonable to expect the public administration to adapt its procedures to the requirements of the situation. existing technological solutions and the increasing digitalisation of the work of the administration create the conditions under which much more operational activity can and should be required from public offices than has been the case until now. the european parliament's report is consultative in nature to solutions already agreed within the council. however, even in this situation, it is important that the representatives of european societies send a strong signal to brussels and national authorities to take more advanced measures to combat aggressive tax avoidance by big business.
in writing. ‒ fair competition is the engine of development, but to do so, all the principles of equal business competition in the global market must be respected. one key element is the fair enforcement of the tax obligation. cooperation between states in this area is therefore important and necessary. the amendments to directive 2011/16/eu on the mandatory exchange of information in the field of taxation proposed by the commission are a legitimate step towards improving the current law. i have decided to vote in favour of the report and i believe that the council will take the right decisions as soon as possible, which will benefit the member states but also, in the end, the businesses themselves.
in writing. ‒ the document put to the vote is the council's non-binding position on the draft submitted by the european commission. in order to effectively address the cross-border problem of tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition, the commission has put forward proposals to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, which aims to increase the transparency of administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. in response, the european parliament proposed that all tax interpretations should be covered by directive 2011/16/eu, not just those that may have a cross-border effect. there is therefore a concern that the significant increase in the circulation of information will require changes in national reporting requirements. parliament also proposed the creation of a central database to collect the annual reports submitted. in view of the excessive reporting obligations imposed on member states and the concerns about the confidentiality of the data disclosed in the annual reports, i voted against parliament's position on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur criticises the international community's response in the first months of the crisis and stresses the importance of a rapid response and the eu's role as the world's main provider of development aid. the international community should start thinking about the post-epidemic period today. the eu's response will have to focus on two areas of development assistance, including investments in health care and the economic recovery needed in countries affected by the ebola epidemic (sierra leone, liberia, guinea). i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ since the outbreak last year, ebola has claimed more than 11 000 lives, mainly in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. that's why prevention is so important, to prevent similar epidemics, all over the world, not just in africa. the ep report properly outlines the conclusions for the future and the action the eu should take both within its own continent and in its relations with the countries where the outbreak has occurred. it is also worth remembering that the tragedy of the countries affected by the epidemic does not end with thousands of deaths. the ebola virus has led to the devastation and inhibition of the socio-economic development processes in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. according to recent estimates, the epidemic cost the economies of west africa alone more than $2.2 billion. multilateral support for these countries is therefore needed.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on a resolution which parliament had worked on on its own initiative. the rapporteur regrets the slow response of the international community in the first months of the ebola crisis in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. it stressed that the eu, as the main donor of development aid, should respond decisively. its assistance will be particularly needed in two areas: the rebuilding of health care and the economies of countries affected by the crisis. i support the solutions proposed by the rapporteur to improve the situation in the regions at risk: the creation of a european rapid reaction team of experts and the revision of the programming of the european development fund to take account of the new needs of these countries. the european union cannot afford to downplay this humanitarian crisis. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, although unfortunately it does not cover all aspects of the problem of car emissions. it is sharp, suggesting a more ambitious approach to the far-reaching emission limits of new vehicles, not only on test benches but also during the in-service operation of the diesel engines that power them. the resolution omits the environmental and human health damage that older engines have caused and continue to cause. it is almost certain that, for example, the euro 4 and euro 5 standards, as well as euro 6, were not respected in practice. the resolution does not call for the adoption of a repair clause by all member states, although it could improve the maintenance of low emission operating standards throughout the european automotive market.
in writing. ‒ following the volkswagen emissions cheating scandal, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the matter on 27 october. i supported the motion for a resolution and had earlier made a speech in parliament criticising the eu's regulatory inertia on this type of abuse. i also pointed out the hypocrisy of the eu's climate policy, which 'looks the other way on car pollution'. in its resolution on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector, parliament calls for, among other things, the measures i mentioned in my speech: stricter testing requirements, measurement of real-world emissions, comprehensive monitoring of the motor vehicle market. the house also called for an urgent inquiry into the fraud of the car group, for other car companies to be audited and for the role of eu and national authorities in the fraud to be investigated.
in writing. ‒ deliberate criminal behaviour by any company, no matter how large, will not be tolerated, as it not only causes a loss of public trust and undermines the quality of european products, but also causes significant harm to the health of europeans. to prevent similar situations, real-world emissions tests to ensure that new cars meet euro 6 emissions standards should be introduced by 2017 and an independent european body responsible for emissions testing should be established. we must first of all prevent the negative effects of this scandal on the workers management decisions must not result in job cuts.
in writing. ‒ following reports published on 18 september by the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) on emissions-disrupting devices installed by volkswagen in its cars, the european parliament decided to take a position on the matter by adopting a resolution. it calls on the european commission to ensure a full assessment of the possible manipulation of the automotive sector and to assess the possibility of strengthening the involvement of national authorities in the type-approval procedure. it is also proposed that real driving emissions (rde) procedures be introduced as a matter of urgency, with a target date of 2017. i believe that the disclosure of falsified measurement data is evidence of the compromise not only of the vw group, but of the entire european union. however, i do not agree with the argument put forward in the resolution that a special supervisory body would be necessary at eu level to ensure the enforceability of existing legislation. this is contrary to the calls to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens and, above all, to the principle of subsidiarity. i could not therefore vote in favour of the measure.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs.– madam president, i support the budget for growth and jobs, and the budget to handle the refugee crisis, but we also need a budget for democracy. europe needs the trust and confidence of its citizens, and this can come with a more generous participation by citizens in european decision-making; this can come with more democracy. democracy is an indispensable element to achieving economic success and that is why one of the priorities for the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) is the ‘europe for citizens’ programme. its financial sufficiency is crucial to building more efficient communication with european union citizens and regaining their trust. equally important is improving the efficiency of the european citizens’ initiative as a tool for participatory european democracy and that is why we ask for an adequate budget for these issues and i truly hope that they will find their place in the final outcome of the 2016 budgetary procedure.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. budgets should of course be for the citizens, not for the finance ministers. we know that. we're aware of that. but is this budget like that? in a way it is, and in a way it is not, because it is clearly lacking in clarity. but it can be said without any doubt that this is a budget of responsibility - extremely difficult, in extremely difficult times. i would like to stress first of all the need for solidarity both in the acquisition of the funds in this budget and in the solidarity of the financial resources which are finally in this budget. as the representative of the committee on culture, education and sport, i would like to stress four main points: firstly, as the whole commission expected, the erasmus plus, creative europe and europe for citizens programmes have been extended. it's very important, and i want to thank you very much for it. the second thing that is very important is that we are going to get rid of the old obligations, which is also very important, which is that we are going to reduce the obligations that the citizens are waiting for. and the last thing, which is a bit critical, is that there is a lack of funding for pilot programmes, and that is all i would like to say.
mr. chairman, please! the year 2016, both in terms of budget size and implementation, will have a major impact on the debate on the review of the multiannual financial perspective and on subsequent years of the perspective. it is important to realise that the first years of the perspective leading up to 2016 are already a period of high use of the flexibility mechanisms, of high use of the margins available. the commission notes that the measures were granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per beneficiary. the size of the budget, its structure, therefore clearly indicates that the ceilings that are agreed for the years 2014-2020 are too low. they are too low and therefore some things cannot be done, and the new expenses that are coming in make it worse. i am drawing attention to this because it will have an impact on our debate on the review. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i agree with the honourable member that 2016 will be a test of political will, as expressed by the juncker fund. if so much has been said about what money should be allocated to smes, not only in horizon 2020, not only in cohesion policy, but also in the so-called juncker fund, i think that indeed the suggestion of action in this area is absolutely right.
on behalf of the ecr group. the rise of radicalism in the islamic world is a threat to us, but even more so to the people of cities like hebron and jerusalem. the iran deal - the nuclear deal - was to israel what my region once was to a reset of relations with russia. nevertheless, recognizing the need to resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict, the international community (the quartet) and prime minister netanyahu have made numerous gestures. the need for this agreement to also be welcomed by the palestinian side president abbas. what is needed is to bring both sides to the table and to understand that in such a difficult situation of increased threat, an agreement may be possible for the good of the international community and both countries.
madam president! i think you can agree with everyone in this room who says that a lot, maybe even most, depends on israeli policy and opening up the prospects for the future of the palestinians. but we know that both sides are needed for peace and that knife attacks on civilians should be strongly condemned by us, and here some colleagues are behaving very cautiously on this issue and instead we hear whether we are dealing with the idealisation of the palestinian side. i also think that the union should withhold aid to those palestinian organisations which reject the normalisation of relations with israel. i would remind you that the palestinian ngos code of conduct obliges palestinian ngos not to support normalisation activities either in the field of security policy or in the field of cultural and development policy. they nevertheless receive union funds. i think it's time to change that policy and end the policy of false symmetries.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, as one speaker said during this debate, we always have the same debate. and let me say very frankly, as i always tend to be, when we say this is not time for business as usual, that is also for us. because here we see again and again, even within political families and within the groups, the same split. some of you ask me to speak with a stronger voice when we condemn acts of terror, which we do, and some of you ask me to have a stronger voice when we call for the end of occupation, which we do. we do both. please have a look – a serious one – not only at my statements, but also at the most recent statement of the quartet of just a few days ago, which means that these are common positions, not only of the whole european union united, but also of the international community through the quartet. this is a common position that we have built. let me say that the common position of the european union and of the international community through the quartet is much more united than members are able to manage within their own political groups. this is not the time for us only to call for something or to condemn something. do we realise that we are in a serious, dramatic situation which could be the end of the oslo framework? so, if i hear readiness from both sides to work together, to restart talks and to work together in implementing some measures on the ground, i ask you in this room what you think our role as the european union is: to condemn and to call for something or to try to bring them to do it? i believe our role is the second one, partly because i do not see many actors pushing to play this role at this moment. there are plenty of other crises competing with this one, and we europeans are one of the few still focusing very much on this. but we have to do it with the right approach: trying to help them to get out of this bubble. i am also a historian through my studies and i love history, but the problem we have here is that there is too much history. if someone does not help the parties and the people – the israelis and the palestinians – and not only them, but the whole region, to get out of the bubble of history and try to look at how to manage the common future they have committed to, nobody else will do it. so i believe our role is a diplomatic one, which is not a nice exercise in good intentions. it is very hard. it is very tough. it is not naïve. it is a reality check that we have to make here. we risk losing the oslo framework. someone said at the beginning of the debate – i think it was gianni pittella – that we are losing generations. there are generations in israel and in palestine who do not believe in those two states anymore. on both sides, there are young people who believe either in no state at all or in one state only. i believe that the oslo framework is still a valid perspective for both, with all that goes with it. but we are at the edge. it is not going to continue like this. so this is what i am trying to do: passing the message to the leadership – and hopefully also to the people, but that is not only my job – that if you say you want two states, either you do something now or it is gone. we do not have the safety net of a plan b. we will have to reinvent it if we leave the oslo framework. it is no longer about what we call for or what we condemn. if it is done, it is a totally different story. the world does not need another complication in the region. that is why, of all the conflicts we have, to me this is one of the most urgent because its global ramifications go everywhere in the world and the presence of the holy sites makes it even more serious. it is, paradoxically, also a conflict that, if there is enough political will, can be resolved, because they have been discussing for decades how it should look in the end, and there is – as someone rightly pointed out – an arab peace initiative that can provide a regional framework for security and for peace. i would invite you to go back to the spirit with which you discussed this issue in september, which was a constructive and useful one that gave us strength last month to gather the international community behind our proposals and our positions and to bring the parties to start looking at whether we can do something together. there are moments where violence is higher, like this one, that could also be the turning point in a crisis because the parties realise that they are risking too much internally. violence in israel also comes from the inside. the situation inside the west bank means that, in my view, both leaderships realise that it is in their interests to tackle this seriously. i might be wrong: it could be that this does not lead anywhere, and then we will need to see, together with our friends in the rest of the international community, what we do about that. but my role at the moment – and i will ask you, as europeans, to be united on this – is to try to see if there is one chance for the two sides to start doing something useful on the ground instead of having their people killing each other, and to facilitate this to happen because we are not going to have many chances in the future. i feel a sense of urgency and that a dramatic moment has come. i do not think that this is just another chapter of a long story. the situation is different today. we can come back in another month or another month and a half and discuss our statements, our options, our condemning, whatever. in the meantime, we need to try to bring them together again, together with arab friends and together with the international community. but this is our work and i am sure that this parliament will support this effort. this is a crisis where the european union has a lot to spend in terms of political capacity. i said this exactly one year ago in the hearing in the committee on foreign affairs. this is the crisis where we are the biggest player if we want to transform the money we have spent and the economic, political and cultural relations we have with both sites into political capital. this is what we are strongly building. obviously this is not completely in our hands because peace cannot be imposed from the outside, but what can be done from the outside is the facilitation and the push for a serious shift of policy to happen. i think that in these dramatic conditions the parties all have interests in doing this for real. (applause)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the escalation of the arab-israeli conflict in recent days, which has been called the third intifada and is indeed taking on the dimensions of a religious war, is also being observed with great concern and concern in poland, a country that has never been indifferent to the fate of the holy land. we understand that there are always those on both sides of the conflict who are to blame, but we appreciate the fact that it is the israeli side that is now declaring its readiness to talk without preconditions. we continue to hope for a similar willingness from the palestinian authority, if only in the form of a permanent monitoring of the temple mount. while appreciating the international commitment of the quartet, i would like to call for these efforts to be limited to creating a positive environment for the resumption of peace talks, without imposing ready-made solutions on the parties. let's trust prime minister netanyahu, who is able to act effectively even without the advice of minister lavrov. finally, on behalf of the polish people, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the soldiers and civilian victims murdered in the recent stabbings and i expect the palestinian authority authorities to condemn this form of violence in a firm manner.
vpc/hr.– madam president, let me apologize if sometimes i am a little bit too passionate in my statements. normally it happens at the end of the debates, not at the beginning, so i will try to go back to my normal tone of voice. i would like to start by thanking parliament for keeping a focus on south sudan and for organising this debate. i think it is very important that we keep focused on that. this is a country where huge hopes faded in the space of just a few years. it is a country that could be rich if it fully used its natural resources but, on the contrary, we have a humanitarian situation that is dire. we have some 30 000 people currently risking death by starvation and thousands more that are on the brink of famine, according to un data. a million people are internally displaced. over 700 000 have fled the country. it is one of the biggest refugee crises today, and i would like us to focus on the refugee crises that are happening in the world even when they are happening outside our own borders or regions. innocent civilians continue to suffer human rights abuses. at least 80 civilians were reportedly killed over the last three weeks and a further 150 civilians have reportedly been killed since friday 23 october in unity state alone. meanwhile, humanitarian organisations still have no access to this area. sexual violence against women and children has reached shocking levels and these crimes go against the commitments made by all parties in south sudan: commitments to protect its citizens and put an end to the human rights violations. the people of south sudan cannot wait. justice and reconciliation must be central to our efforts to lay the foundation for sustainable peace. for this reason we welcomed the african union’s decision to publish the commission of inquiry’s report and to move ahead with the establishment of the court. the recent peace agreement offers a really unique opportunity, one that cannot be missed. it is an opportunity for south sudan to move towards a transparent, accountable government: a government that places the interests of the citizen above all else. and, if properly implemented, the agreement will end the fighting. it will install transitional institutions to rebuild the country. the government’s decision to increase the number of federal states in the country goes against the spirit and the letter of the agreement. the same goes for the reluctance of the opposition to commit to the implementation of the security arrangements. the recent clashes in unity state and the worrying signs of growing crackdown on civil societies are all very worrying events. just yesterday in addis, the parties took a first step to move beyond the current deadlock. this gives us hope that the discussion can get to the next stage. but let me say that a positive conclusion of the dialogue is still not in sight. only timely implementation of the agreement will lead to real peace, end the suffering of the people of south sudan and stop the humanitarian tragedy. spoilers on all sides must understand that there are consequences for their actions, and there will be. there are a number of steps that must be taken now: first, a ceasefire must come into place as a matter of urgency, and second, all obstacles to full and unconditional humanitarian access must be removed immediately. with statehood comes responsibility. hard work begins now with the implementation of the agreement. south sudan cannot afford this agreement to follow the same path of all past broken ceasefire agreements. for that, we need to sustain international pressure and cohesion. we all have welcomed the continued efforts of the international authority on development (igad) and the african union in reaching this deal and the constructive engagement of sudan, uganda, ethiopia and kenya. i met exactly one week ago in addis with the african union’s chairperson, dr zuma, and with the ethiopian prime minister. we agreed to keep working together to help south sudan. in the implementation phase regional unity is essential and plays a key role. with regard to the regional challenges, i recall the conclusions adopted yesterday by the council of the eu/horn of africa regional action plan 2015—2020 which outlines the european union’s comprehensive approach to address the key issues in the region. it will also need a strong monitoring body representing the south sudanese civil society together with regional and international players. in this context, the appointment of president mogae as chair of the joint monitoring body is good news. his leadership will be essential to guide the implementation phase. the eu will continue to stand by the south sudanese people during the transitional process. we have done so since the outbreak of fighting in december 2013. we worked to bring an end to the fighting and initiate a political transition and we provided massive humanitarian assistance. in 2014, the commission’s humanitarian support exceeded eur 116 million. this year our aid has already reached eur 107 million. the united nations calculated that the european union as a whole, including member states, funded almost 41% of all humanitarian donations to people in need in south sudan this year, and in total over 3.1 million vulnerable people benefitted from life-saving assistance in south sudan this year. but we know very well that humanitarian assistance alone cannot substitute for sound development programmes. not only is the eu contributing to humanitarian assistance, it also supports the implementation of the peace agreement across its five pillars. the support will originate mainly from the edf national programme, but for pillars one and two, namely governance and security, the support will originate from the instrument contributing to stability and peace and the african peace facility, respectively. we are now ready to work with a transitional government of national unity. we can help establish the transitional institutions and develop sound policies for rebuilding the country. this will include responsible, transparent and equitable management of south sudan’s vast resources. it is time that these resources are used for the benefit of the population as a whole. ratifying the cotonou agreement would be a sign of south sudan’s will to announce its relation with the european union, but right now it is urgent that all south sudanese parties commit to implementing the agreement. this is the key step we need now, and this is what we have discussed with the regional players last week as our common horizon to work on this together. i thank members very much for their attention and i look forward to hearing their views in this debate, which i consider extremely helpful and useful in our common work.
on behalf of the ppe group. the conflict in south sudan and the peace process in that country are issues that play an important role in my political group's policy towards african countries. the august peace agreement that ended more than 20 months of civil war has not been a panacea for the country, which remains in a deep humanitarian and political-economic crisis. this agreement is only the first, albeit a significant, step towards stabilisation and a return to growth. the statement by the leaders of south sudan on the establishment of a hybrid tribunal and the prosecution of those responsible for violence and abuse should be welcomed. this is important in the context of recent reports of abduction and enslavement of women and children as a form of payment for combat soldiers. this phenomenon is a violation of fundamental human rights, such as the right to life and the prohibition of slavery or servitude. the government of south sudan should take all steps to counter this process. we also want to draw attention to the poor humanitarian situation that exists in this country at the moment. it is estimated that over two million people have been displaced by the conflict, with no access to clean water, no health care, and disease spreading. only swift and decisive action by the international community can prevent famine and another wave of refugees. it is our duty to support the peace process in south sudan and to provide all possible assistance to the people of that country on their path to peace.
after months of bloody fighting, president salva kiir signed a peace agreement, which was accompanied by numerous ceasefire violations. i appreciate the initiative of the international community, the pressure it put on, the negotiations, the igad+ initiative, the regional players. i appreciate the work of the security council in aligning the united nations mandate for the peacekeeping mission and also the willingness of the uk national contingent to be involved. however, i believe that the consent of the security council is needed for targeted sanctions, because the actions administrative division of the country taken by the south sudanese authorities show that there is still a lack of good will to implement the agreement.
mr president, four years after the independence referendum, the army still conducts military operations in the disputed areas and the tragic consequences of these operations affect the civilian population. the eu must continue with the increased development assistance to meet south sudan’s needs, ensuring that the safety of the people is the first and foremost consideration. it is vital to make sure that the support gets to where it is needed most. it is unfortunately true that the current conflict was easy to predict – so why is it that we could not avoid it? why do we have to repeat the same patterns in different parts of the world? why is it that, first, comes the desire for freedom, and later it is defeated by bloody greed. this lesson has still not been learned, and we have to remember that.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the joint debate on: report by ivan jakovčić on behalf of the committee on regional development on the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian region (2014/2214 (ini)) (a8-0279/2015) and report by fernando ruas on behalf of the committee on regional development on cohesion policy and the review of the strategy europe 2020 (2014/2246 (ini)) (a8-0277/2015) and report by josé blanco lópez on behalf of the committee on regional development on the european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance: guidelines for the application of article 23 of the common provisions regulation (2015/2052 (ini)) (a8-0268/2015) and the establishment of a reply to the commission's request for a report by mihaylov on behalf of the committee on regional development on the cohesion policy and its review of the strategy europe 2020 (b7-0123/2015) (oj l 108, 13.4.2015)
madam president! given that the europe 2020 strategy is the european union's overarching long-term strategy for growth and jobs based on the five objectives we know, and after examining the relevant documents, the following questions arise: when will the european parliament receive information from the commission on the results-orientation and the concrete contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives in the 2007-2013 programming period? the conclusions drawn could be useful in the ongoing implementation of the strategy and its potential evaluation. is the scope of substantive responsibility and the short- and medium-term work plan of the better implementation team for european union funds defined? how was the process of selecting the team members conducted in terms of substance? is there a work plan for both the short-term and the long-term structural reform support service, which officially started work on 1 july 2015 and will provide technical assistance to member states to improve the implementation of structural reforms and country-specific recommendations? what action has the service taken in july/october, i.e. up to now, to address the above issues?
madam president! cohesion policy is without doubt one of the most pro-growth and pro-investment policies of the union. however, i am convinced that by simplifying this policy we could make it more effective and achieve even better results. last year, over 1,500 irregularities were reported in cohesion policy projects. it should be remembered, however, that a large number of these irregularities are not the result of the bad will of the beneficiaries, but of a misunderstanding of the guidelines and regulations. simplifying the language as well as making clearer the expectations of beneficiaries would certainly have a positive impact on subsequent audits. the commission should also avoid introducing changes to the rules during the lifetime of projects. this practice not only imposes additional costs on the beneficiaries, but also involves a workload that prevents them from concentrating on the project. the lack of adequate financial impact analysis of the new rules and the long procedures are also frustrating. it cannot be that the procedural costs are disproportionate to the activities of the project and the length of the procedures makes the project unjustified. i also support greater flexibility in cohesion policy based on mutual trust between the european commission and the member states. today, that trust is not enough.
rapporteur.– madam president, we are here because we decided to amend the european union electoral law. this law dates back to 1976 and, in the meantime, as we all know, europe has been through major and unimaginable changes, in terms of both the scope and the substance of eu integration. the european parliament has also changed dramatically, in size and in relation to its competences, especially as a co—legislator, with its decisions having huge impact on people’s lives. it should not come as a surprise that we want to adjust the electoral act of 1976 to the new reality. this report highlights the right of the european parliament to decide on its own electoral procedure. we all have similar experience, as european parliamentarians, of elections to the european parliament, which continue to be extremely national. no european issues are discussed during the electoral campaign and the european dimension of this democratic process is not sufficiently visible. that is why we have proposed a change to the european electoral act of 1976. in the proposal, we give the european parliament the right to decide on the date of the election. we ask member states to ensure that all citizens working or living outside the european union are granted the right to vote and enabled to do. we also propose machinery to avoid double voting. we are asking member states to create the conditions for voting by electronic means, via the internet or by post. people with reduced mobility will certainly benefit. i know that some colleagues worry about internet voting, but it can be made safe. we have the example of estonia which started internet voting in 2005, when 2% of estonians decided to use this tool. this year, 30% of estonians voted via the internet. we also want to see more gender equality in the lists, so we are proposing the alignment of deadlines for some elements of the electoral process, such as the establishment of lists. let me also mention the possibility for national parties of informing voters, via the ballot paper, of their affiliation with european political parties. citizens should have this information. through these and other measures we hope to contribute to making elections to the european parliament truly european, and to increasing citizens’ interest in participating in this important element of european decision making. let me conclude by saying that people’s impact on europe starts with their informed participation in the european elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the group of the european conservatives and reformists has a good view of the current european parliamentary rules and we do not see the need to change them, and we certainly do not see the need to change them in the direction of centralisation, of unifying electoral law. there are two important things to look at here: first, the belief that if we encourage lowering the voting age to 16, or encouraging light voting, in the form of online voting, then the attendance at the european parliament will go up a lot. we're not convinced of these measures. the ballot has its dignity, its gravity. online forms should not be used as standard forms. but more important is the idea of centralising electoral law, including ideas such as the obligation to use the logo of the european party alongside the logo of the national parties. we don't see the need for that, it shouldn't be an obligation. there are new political parties in the life of our countries that can make this choice later, when they sit in the european parliament. why force them to do it during the election campaign? but above all, the legitimacy of the european parliament must be based on respect for national traditions, constitutional traditions and the sovereignty of nations. the closer to the national context, the closer to the citizens. the more centralised and uniform legislation is, the more the european parliament will distance itself from the real problems of its citizens. that's why we're voting against this bill.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank both those who were saying that we lack ambition and those who were saying that we are too ambitious, because basically those were the two groups we heard here in the chamber. to those who consider that we lack ambition with this report, i would say that sometimes in our work, and you all experience this, we want to bring more people on board for the ideas we consider important for european citizens – then, of course, our level of ambition falls to that of the common ambition. to a certain extent, that is why we could not do certain things. another reason, however, has to do with the procedure involving the council: we have to go with this proposal to the council, and the council, under the treaty, can completely ignore our proposal. that is why we are trying to build something that will get through the whole system and take us a step forward in the evolution of the european parliament’s right to decide on the procedure for its own electoral process. these points may constitute an explanation in response to the first group of comments. to all those who consider we are going too far, i have to say that i totally disagree with you. in response to those who say we are moving too far in the sense of taking responsibility for issues that should be addressed at national level, as matters for national sovereignty, i would say that this proposal brings members of the european parliament closer to the voters, and also brings european citizens closer to europe. so through this proposal i believe we are addressing what is today the biggest weakness of the european union, namely the huge distance between the citizens and the union. i hope that, as a result of all our discussions, at committee level, here and subsequently in the council, we will achieve something which, though it may not be milestone, as the commissioner nicely put it, will certainly take us forward in terms of the european parliament’s right to decide on its own electoral procedures. as györgy schöpflin was saying, we are probably the only parliament in the world that is not currently able to decide for itself about its electoral procedures. lastly, with regard to the threshold and the recent ruling by the german federal constitutional court, i hope jo leinen will explain it but, if i remember correctly, one of the points the court made was that if there were a european law on the threshold it would be a different story. that is why we are proposing a european law: so that we can avoid all the problems we are having at national level, with differing interpretations by different constitutional courts. in any case, thank you, colleagues, very much. i hope that you will still have time to rethink how you are going to vote. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. a well-functioning judiciary is one of the most important pillars of a democratic state. the european union is a family of democracies, and a well-functioning european judiciary should therefore be of great importance to all of us. so it is with great pleasure that i say on behalf of the ppe group that this difficult, very arduous negotiating process of reaching a final compromise is finally coming to an end. tomorrow we are going to vote on the compromise which was negotiated between the european parliament and the council last week. this compromise is based on the recognition of the need to increase the number of judges in the court. there is no doubt that the court needs more judges to function efficiently, so that we do not incur financial penalties for lengthy trial periods. but i also want to express my deep gratitude that the european parliament has managed to introduce two important elements: first, a review clause that will allow us, as soon as the reform is completed in 2019, to look at how it has affected the functioning of the court and whether it is really as effective as we see it today. and the second thing is the adoption, together with the council, of a european parliament resolution on the need for gender equality in the court of justice. but i want to say that this is just the beginning of the road and that this gender equality should be manifested everywhere. it cannot therefore be established for one institution without looking at the other institutions. this is the beginning of the road we're going to take. the ppe group will vote tomorrow to support the agreement reached with the council.
in writing. the reform of the court of justice of the european union is dictated by the ever-increasing number of cases to be heard. in 2010, there were less than 600, in 2014 there were 912, and by march 2015 there was a record 1393. the waiting period for a decision is now 4 to 5 years. it should be recalled that the right to a judgment within a reasonable time is guaranteed by article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights and that access to justice is a cornerstone of democracy. in this context, it is necessary to strengthen the court of first instance with a larger number of judges so that it can give judgment effectively. at the end of the envisaged reform, it will consist of 56 judges, two from each member state. furthermore, given that the pursuit of equality between women and men is one of the objectives of the union, i am pleased that we have also managed to introduce an amendment stating that member state governments should ensure, as far as possible, equal participation of both sexes in the selection process of future judges. the proper functioning of the judiciary requires expenditure. the commission notes that the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the application of the principle of proportionality. i am satisfied with the compromise reached with the council.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in taking part in the debate on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, i would like to point out that the ecr group will vote against the european commission's proposal on this matter. we believe, however, that the same approach should be adopted for genetically modified food and feed as for genetically modified crops. the gmo directive, which has been agreed by all the eu institutions, gives member states the possibility of prohibiting or restricting the cultivation of gmos on their territory, provided that certain requirements described in the directive are met. if we want to apply the subsidiarity principle - as it is known in the european union - then similar solutions should be applied to gmo food and feed. i hope that the commission will soon come forward with appropriate solutions in this respect.
poland is known in europe and the world for producing healthy, safe and high-quality food. the polish public, like the public of many other european union countries, does not want gmos. we should be taking decisions in accordance with the will of the citizens of the union when we speak here in parliament on behalf of the citizens of the european union. the proposal put forward by the european commission needs to be improved, but i do not agree with the european parliament's rejection of it. where member states are already allowed to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory, this decision should also have the consequence of allowing them to prohibit the placing on the market of genetically modified food and feed.
mr. chairman, please! i support, as do most of my colleagues, the position of the rapporteur, mrs la vija, who calls for the rejection of the european commission's proposal to restrict or prohibit the use and sale of genetically modified food and feed on its territory. i believe that the adoption of this proposal would be likely to undermine the principles of the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and could lead, as my colleague has just said, to the renationalisation of agricultural policy. in addition, enforcing such a restriction would be either impossible or at least extremely costly, which would not be without impact on the global competitiveness of european agriculture. i am aware that the question of gmos is a difficult one, on which there is no unanimity among the member states. however, i do not think that the commission's proposal would solve this problem, but would only make it more difficult for the existing mechanisms to work properly.
in writing. the draft regulation 2015/0093 proposed by the european commission was intended to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. this is a noble idea, based on civil liberties, but it is impossible to achieve within the current european structures. the commission's draft did not provide any guidelines for action, nor did it propose any criteria which could systematize the measures taken. this means that each member state would have a free hand to impose restrictions on imports and distribution, which in the absence of border controls within the european union would inevitably lead to chaos caused by the uncontrolled flow of products. the absence of a uniform and systematic action plan would also lead to tensions between pro- and anti-gmo countries. it should also be borne in mind that genetically modified food is a relatively new subject and that there is no scientific basis to date to conclude that such products are harmful to human health or life. in conclusion, the european union needs uniform rules to prevent internal divisions and to ensure the security of its internal markets.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is the second approach of the european union, the european parliament, to the issue of novel foods. the previous one ended with a rejection in 2011. in this proposal, which is undoubtedly better, the much-needed regulation has nevertheless raised controversy in three respects. first, there is nanotechnology and nanomaterials. i think that in mr nicholson's report this problem has been solved by the appropriate definitions. the second issue is the approach to food from clones, and especially the offspring of animal clones. a compromise was also reached here, as this issue will be addressed in another legislative proposal. i call on the commission to submit this proposal as soon as possible. and the third issue is the question of delegated or implementing acts. we, the european conservatives and reformists, are in favour of the executive acts. food safety is the most important feature and in this case the precautionary principle should apply, but also the transparency of the application of procedures, and this legislative proposal seems to put these postulates into practice.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on novel foods, i would like to express my satisfaction that the process of introducing new legislation in this area initiated by the european commission back in 2008 and continued in the new proposal of 2013 is slowly coming to an end. the commission proposal has removed the most controversial issues, such as the use of nanomaterials in food and food derived from cloned animals, and has transferred them to other legal standards, leaving only the issue of authorisation of novel foods to be resolved. the ecr group is in favour of the commission granting them by means of implementing acts rather than delegated acts. finally, i would like to express the hope that the european commission will follow the precautionary principle as the main principle when authorising novel foods. consumer safety should be a priority for all eu institutions.
madam president! i'd like to start by saying that i'm very pleased to see the debate on novel foods being resumed. innovation in the food sector can be a source of growth and jobs. these objectives are fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy. however, it is important to bear in mind that this approach presents not only opportunities but also challenges. i believe that it is particularly important to streamline the authorisation procedure for the placing of novel foods on the market and to ensure that this legislation is consistent with other areas of eu policy. it is also worth stressing the importance of reliable information provided by member states and food business operators. let's remember that the health of the consumer is at stake. every effort should be made to ensure that the food we put on the market is completely safe and meets the criteria set out in eu regulations.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. our goals are: clean, poison-free air, eco-innovation, protection of natural capital, new, environmentally friendly technologies. extending the limits to non-toxic greenhouse gases is a misunderstanding. limiting methane emissions will disrupt the agricultural sector. the restrictions should only concern toxic emissions, e.g. ammonia, but only in built-up areas. toxins emitted into the atmosphere are locally active and their averaging by including overseas territories, i.e. the so-called flexibility in the calculation, is a clear fraud. it is important to update the nitrogen oxide emission limits for the market for used diesel cars, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe. the project omits emissions that are highly toxic to the local atmosphere, i.e. 'low emission', and also those that are hazardous to the health of the nanoparticle. also omitted is a gas poison like hydrogen sulfide.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i have a problem with the report. the proposed limits are unacceptable. the most important caveat is methane. i remind you that it's covered by the climate package. the additional regulation will place too much pressure on the agricultural sector. the reduction in the number of cattle for meat, milk and pig production will be very large, not only in my country, poland, but also in other countries of the union. in poland, it is estimated that the reduction in the number of cattle for meat production could be as high as 42% and in dairy production as high as 24%. in recent years, the decline in cattle farming in poland has been significant and the deepening of this phenomenon will be very unfavourable for polish as well as european farmers. methane should therefore be excluded from the directive. i've filed amendments to remove methane and i'm asking you to support my amendments.
we are about to vote on this important draft directive on air protection, a directive which is to set upper emission ceilings for certain pollutants for the member states. that is one of our goals, one of our priorities, but as always, the ambitions that we want to adopt in new regulations should be achievable by the economy. they should not be an undue burden, particularly in terms of costs. i myself was rapporteur for the recently adopted directive in the same clean air package, which concerned medium combustion plants. the work on this directive has managed to balance ambitious environmental objectives with economic opportunities. the most controversial provisions in the proposed directive concern methane emission limits. these reductions, if carried out in an ill-considered manner, can threaten agricultural production. members of parliament wiśniewska and gieseke also spoke about this. methane is released into the atmosphere in animal production. this could hit the livestock sector not only in poland but in many member states. methane emissions are also covered by climate legislation. my political group has tabled amendments here. i would also like to draw attention to one aspect: the directive limits the emission of nitrogen oxides and dust, and a major source of both is transport, mainly cars, including those with diesel engines, which we discussed at the last session. so we need to have a realistic assessment of the reality here, of the solutions proposed, so that they can be met by the member states and be met by the economy.
in writing. none of us have any doubt that we should take action to protect the environment. but the agreement we negotiated and the goals we set for ourselves cannot be separated from reality. we must not forget that the cattle industry is facing one of the most serious crises in recent years. as a member of the polish parliament, i will not support solutions that are harmful to our breeders. i call on all colleagues to support the amendments tabled by the polish delegation of the european conservatives and reformists which remove the methane obligation. i would like to emphasise that the issues relating to emissions of this compound are already covered by climate legislation and there is no need to duplicate them. i also believe that the reduction commitments imposed are too ambitious and too costly. i would like to remind you that poland is among the countries that meet their emission ceilings, and in the years 2011-13 the volume of emissions was below the limit resulting from the treaty of accession of poland to the eu. the draft amendments to the directive require greater flexibility so that each country can define its own path towards the levels indicated for 2030.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like, on behalf of the epp group and also in agreement with my colleague and co—rapporteur representing the socialists and democrats, jo leinen, to request that the vote on the european electoral law be postponed to the november i part-session.
in writing. ‒ maintaining the european parliament's three seats, in three different countries and cities, i.e. brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg, is extremely costly and difficult for europeans to understand, especially for citizens of those member states to whom the european union institutions address appeals for public spending cuts. it therefore seems perfectly rational to choose one city for the seat of the european parliament, most likely brussels, where the other eu institutions are also located. i understand perfectly well the symbolic importance of the city of strasbourg for the franco-german reconciliation after the second world war. however, it should not be forgotten that the city is home to other very important european institutions, such as the council of europe and the european court of human rights. i therefore believe that we should once again turn to the question of a single seat for the european parliament, which would be more in line with both our needs and our capabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i do not think that rejecting the commission's proposal is enough. the regulation in its current form is not ideal and requires more precision, in particular in terms of definitions, in order to ensure its effective implementation and legal certainty. however, rejecting this proposal is not a good solution, as action is needed as soon as possible on a matter of such importance to public health. the current legal framework allows the european commission to authorise a product after obtaining a positive opinion from the european food safety authority, as member states are not able to take a qualified majority in the standing committee. as a member from poland, where the majority of citizens oppose the marketing of genetically modified organisms, i believe that the current rules are not satisfactory and must be changed.
in writing. ‒ one of the most important problems facing the european community since the end of the second world war was the problem of hunger. producing pest-resistant food and feed that does not deteriorate quickly and retains the colour expected was a priority. the effects of genetically modified food and feed on human health and life shall be clearly identified. there is no reliable research to answer the question of whether genetically modified food and feed have a positive effect on human health and life or the opposite. some opponents point out that they may cause the extinction of bees, the growth of weeds that are harder to eradicate, an increase in allergies, and finally, an increase in diseases, especially of the digestive system. the wishes of those who do not wish to consume genetically modified food should be taken into account. for this reason, such food should be appropriately labelled to enable the consumer to make informed choices. i think the eu institutions should do more to promote organic food. at the present stage of knowledge, the subject of genetically modified food and feed should rather be approached with caution. in the european union, almost half of food is wasted, mostly in households, and an information campaign to raise consumer awareness of this issue is therefore needed. in view of the above, i voted against the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the commission's proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 in regards to the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the reasons explaining my decision in that matter, consider both practical level of implementation of this proposal, as well as the possible consequences on eu agricultural sector. the implementation of this proposal is basically nearly impossible to achieve. this is due to the fact that the border control has been already abolished and the only way of monitoring the exports and imports of gmo food is to introduce the border control again. this measure is absolutely pointless, since it would actually constitute the regress of economic achievements of european customs union and the single market. in terms of the consequences on eu agricultural sector, the proposal will have a direct negative impact on it. the research shows that, nowadays, eu is highly dependent on gm imports to feed the livestock and banning such imports would highly reduce the livestock production within the eu, and therefore, in the long-term scenario our economy would suffer severely.
in writing. ‒ the term 'novel food' refers to a type of new food that has not been consumed in the european union before or is produced by previously unknown methods. this applies to non-eu regional products, newly produced nutrients and extracts from known foods. the first provision on these products appeared in european legislation in 1997 and has not been updated since. the proposed amendments are designed to update and harmonise the existing standards in order to remove legal uncertainties and increase consumer safety. it is necessary to take account of technological progress and to simplify the provisions in order to exclude from their scope products covered by other regulations. it is necessary to introduce criteria to enable member states to clearly identify which products belong to the appropriate category 'novel foods'. a transparent and easily accessible product list is necessary, which will be regularly updated and thus sensitive to market changes. amendments to streamline the legislation are necessary in the face of rapidly changing production technologies and increasing access to goods from outside the eu. however, it should be borne in mind that the proposed amendments are designed to ensure consumer safety and this must remain the fundamental condition for any changes.
in writing. ‒ the rapid development of the food market, combined with the introduction of innovation in this field over the last 20 years, has forced us, as a co-financing partner of the european union, to take appropriate decisions that will ensure consumer safety. i want to say that i am very pleased that a trilateral agreement has been reached on this matter. the emergence of so-called new foodstuffs in europe requires the adoption of legislation at community level, which is why i voted in favour of it. it is worth noting that the planned regulation will also cover traditional food from non-eu countries, which has been considered safe and harmless for health for years. i would like to stress that this will avoid excessive and numerous controls by the member states, and will speed up the introduction of these products on the european market. i think this will be a good solution for smaller businesses, because the whole procedure will be less costly, more transparent and simplified and uniform. we must not forget that the products of this sector are currently treated differently in different member states. by voting for the project, i also want to ensure that entrepreneurs have equal access to and sale of the products. the standards developed in the tripartite compromise will not only make novel foods more competitive and attractive, but will also provide an adequate level of protection for the lives of eu citizens, which i believe is one of the most important elements of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report was put to the vote in the context of the legislative procedure to update the legal framework governing the authorisation procedure for novel foods. the current regulation was adopted in 1997 and does not provide for any measures to help businesses to introduce innovative products on the market. the need to change the procedures for placing novel foods on the eu market over the past 20 years has led to the need to change the market situation. the draft regulation envisages, inter alia, simplifying the procedure for traditional foods from third countries by allowing for notification only, maintaining the precautionary principle for the commission's action in the field of novel foods and introducing a principle of transparency of uses, under which the commission will be required to provide information on restrictions imposed by third countries. in my view, the text presented is a reasonable compromise on the above issues. i have therefore decided to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because it imposes too high a commitment on methane. as a member of the polish parliament, i could not support solutions that harm polish cattle and pig farmers. i regret that not all the amendments tabled by the polish delegation of the european conservatives and reformists to remove the methane commitments have been accepted.
in writing. ‒ a few months ago, eu environment ministers agreed that the level of air pollution on our continent is too high (according to ec figures, some 400 000 europeans die prematurely every year from diseases caused by inhaling harmful compounds). it therefore decided to reduce emissions of hazardous compounds from industry, traffic and power plants by 2030. however, in addition to the limits on sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, it has also been decided to limit emissions of methane, for example, a gas produced by animals, mainly cattle, and such a limitation can cause serious disruption in the livestock sector. we are firmly opposed, together with the members of the european people's party and colleagues from other groups, to the introduction of measures to limit methane emissions, which could harm european agricultural production in the long term. i hope that, despite the unfavourable outcome of the vote in the ep, the council will take account of the voice of reason in the negotiations and that the amendment of the directive on national pollution ceilings will not harm our farmers.
in writing. ‒ the draft revision of directive 2001/81/ec on national emission limits (nec directive) is part of the strategy 'clean air for europe'. the existing legislation provides for national emission limits for certain substances to apply from 2010: sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) and ammonia (nh3). the proposal for a directive provides for the continuation of this mechanism for 2020-2030 and reporting obligations, and extends the existing catalogue of restrictions to include new substances: fine particulate matter (pm2,5) and methane (ch4). according to calculations carried out for the commission, the entry into force of this regulation could result in a reduction of up to 42% in the number of beef cattle in poland, 24% in the number of dairy cattle and 12% in the number of pigs. in view of the far-reaching restrictions that could be imposed on my country, i have tabled amendments with mr wojciechowski to keep methane out of the directive. the draft as proposed by the rapporteur is unacceptable to me.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) was created to enable citizens of the union to take part in legislative initiatives and to influence eu policy and legislation. the eci was intended to increase social mobilisation and strengthen a sense of european citizenship. in the first three years of operation, 51 calls for initiatives were received, supported by over six million eu citizens. only three claims were considered admissible. none of them have led to the introduction of new legislation. the initiative has not met citizens' expectations and much remains to be done to realise its full potential. the main objective of this report is to improve the functioning of the eci, to make it more user-friendly and to remove obstacles that make it difficult for organisers to take up the initiative. lessons can be drawn from the fact that six eci organisers, accounting for 30% of all rejected proposals, brought a case against the ec before the european court of justice. in addition, the number of applications received is currently decreasing. the initiative should aim at engaging society and promoting dialogue between citizens and institutions. this instrument should encourage as many community citizens as possible to participate in the further development of the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european citizens' initiative. the european citizens' initiative is one of the best instruments for creating eu law. the european citizens' initiative allows citizens to be actively involved in the development of eu legislation and thus also gives citizens a better understanding of the functioning of the eu institutions. i fully agree with the report that, despite the unquestionable added value of the european citizens' initiative, its functioning needs to be improved and facilitated. the first is the need to promote the initiative more widely among citizens so that they are fully informed of their rights as citizens of the union, including the right to participate in a citizens' initiative. the practical aspects of the operation of the initiative should then be examined in order to help the organisers of the initiatives to implement them effectively and efficiently. in this respect, i support the creation in each member state of an information unit, for example at the european commission representation, which would provide information and legal advice on european citizens' initiatives. in addition, in the context of the creation of the digital union, consideration should also be given to facilitating and increasing access to software for collecting online signatures, for example for persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ 51 citizens' initiatives have been submitted so far. three of them reached the required threshold of 1 million citizens' signatures (including the 'one of us' initiative, which gathered nearly 1.8 million signatures). however, none of these initiatives was followed up, as the european commission refused to initiate the legislative procedure. the shape of regulation 211/2011 means that it is the european commission that actually decides on the fate of a citizens' initiative, regardless of whether the initiative has fulfilled all the conditions required by law. this procedure makes the citizens' right to initiative unrealistic and fictitious, mainly because of the arbitrary power of the european commission. moreover, the regulation as it stands creates a whole series of requirements which are, in essence, an unjustified obstacle to citizens' initiative. for example, different personal data are required to support citizens' initiatives in 28 member states under different national rules. the european union, meanwhile, cannot allow the creation of de facto dead institutions and 'internally blocked institutions'. the direction of this report is clear, aiming to correct existing errors, as well as to strengthen and improve the institution of the citizens' initiative, to communicate it better and to make it a more realistic instrument. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) has been in operation since 2012 and its main objective is to enable citizens of the union to participate in the legislative initiative process. unfortunately, based on the views of civil society and the commission's report, it is concluded that this instrument does not fulfil its basic functions. since 2012, 51 initiatives have been submitted, none of which have resulted in the adoption of the proposed legislation. in addition, the organisers of many of the rejected initiatives have appealed the commission's decisions to refuse registration of these initiatives to the court of justice and the european ombudsman. the decline in the number of new initiatives is also widely highlighted. the reasons for this are disproportionately stringent requirements and an unnecessarily complex system. the main points are: insufficient communication activities on the eio at european and national level, a very different system of providing personal data to support the eio in the different member states, the mistrust of citizens towards the provision of personal data required for supporting the eio and the personal responsibility of the organisers for the protection of personal data, the lack of detailed and exhaustive reasons for the rejection of the eios submitted by the commission, too short a timeframe for the collection of declarations of support by the organisers.
in writing. ‒ the source of democracy's strength is civil society. for it not only to function well but also to develop, it must be able to influence the outcome of government not just once every few years in an electoral act, but also on a regular basis, which is what the european citizens' initiative is for in the case of the european union. i am in favour of it being operational and of taking measures which can help to make citizens more effective participants in the solution of issues which are important to all of us. i therefore decided to vote in favour of parliament's report, which contains a number of proposals to simplify the formal and procedural requirements for the submission of a european citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on european citizens initiative. eci is a new political right introduced for our citizens, which allows them to play an active role in the creation of eu law. the initiative was introduced in april 2012, and from that time, we have received a number of complaints suggesting that eci is not working as well as intended. first of all, the report focuses mainly on increasing the public awareness of eci. in order for the initiative to be effective, it is crucial to raise the awareness amongst both our citizens and that appropriate media, and also to ensure its transparency. moreover, the provisions of that report point out several difficulties that organisers have encountered since the regulation entered into force in spring 2012, and it suggests the measures that should be undertaken in order to eliminate those problems. hence, the idea of establishing a dedicated eci office is very promising and it may, in fact, prove to be a sufficient way to ensure that the eci is working well enough.
in writing. ‒ the recent economic crisis has had a significant impact on the adriatic-ionian countries, in particular high unemployment, debt levels, inefficiency and inhibition of economic growth and a decline in investment. the countries of the region have a huge potential that is currently not being exploited. i voted in favour of the resolution because it creates legal instruments to enable the countries of the region to develop a common strategy and coordinate their action under the commission's guidance, and thus, in my view, gives them a unique opportunity for rapid and sustainable development and for the western balkan countries to move closer to the eu. i believe that the implementation of the development strategy envisaged in the resolution will benefit both eu member states and third countries. the requirements of good water management, harmonisation of water legislation, cross-border cooperation, a common environmental policy, the construction of road and transport infrastructure, and the promotion of public-private partnerships should contribute to increased competitiveness, job creation and investment, including from foreign operators. the resolution underlines the importance of tourism to the countries of the region and encourages them to promote a diversified and competitive tourism offer. the implementation of this principle would also benefit poles, including voters in my constituency, who often choose italy and the balkans as their holiday destination.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that another region can benefit from the opportunities offered by this innovative form of cooperation, the macro-regional strategy. this is the fourth strategy adopted by the union in the last few years, the last of which covers the alpine region. in this context, i would like to once again recall and call for the priority to be given to mountain regions in the european union and following the example of the alpine region for the development of a macro-regional strategy for the carpathian region, which requires intervention and increased involvement by the union. the carpathian regions have repeatedly demonstrated their initiative and their mobilisation in the interest of the macro-region as a whole. the ball is now in the court of the council and the commission. i would remind the latter that the baltic and danube macro-regional strategies meet at the polish-slovak border. both approaches are marginal to mountain issues and certainly do not address the problems of the carpathians in a comprehensive way. in this spirit, i support the efforts of other regions to establish macro-regional strategies.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a key instrument for deepening european integration, including by reducing economic, social and territorial disparities in all eu regions. the eu's current objectives for growth and development are largely reflected in the europe 2020 strategy. the resolution we have voted on is in fact a report on the mid-term review of the strategy, drawn up by the european parliament's committee on regional development, of which i am a member. the main conclusions and demands contained in the resolution concern the need for the continued involvement of the member states in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and the linking of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to it, while defining their subsidiary nature to cohesion policy, in particular the impossibility of any change in the financial allocations to the member states agreed under title 1b of the mff for the years 2014-2020 in response to the potential needs of this fund. the importance of eu investment policy for regional and national development was also underlined, and an appeal was made for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy to be stepped up, given the delay in the current programming. i believe that the adoption of the resolution will have a positive impact on the effective implementation of cohesion policy and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and will set the direction for the work of the other eu bodies in this area.
in writing. ‒ experience shows that the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy very often work side by side, although they should be very closely linked. this is best illustrated by the fact that the cohesion policy programming or reporting rules do not provide for mechanisms for flagship initiatives and the contribution of the european funds to their implementation. the european commission, in its review of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, does not sufficiently address cohesion policy. the employment and social policy areas are clearly suffering, as the strategy's objectives of creating quality jobs and combating social exclusion are not sufficiently achieved through cohesion policy. of course, it is to be welcomed that the amounts allocated to these purposes are higher in the current programming period than in the previous one. however, this increase is not sufficient when we take into account the problems faced by most member states. the main problem with the lack of linkage between the two areas seems to be that they are prepared and implemented at different times. i therefore welcomed the report by fernando ruas on cohesion policy and the europe 2020 review, which highlights the opportunity offered by the mid-term reviews of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy and the need to link the two areas even more closely.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is now closely linked to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive development set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the commission is currently working on a mid-term review of the strategy and is due to present further proposals by the end of 2015. i support the pursuit of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular those related to the eradication of poverty and social exclusion and the fight against unemployment. i would remind you, however, that the structural funds have a specific task to perform, namely to support the regions, or more precisely to make up for the differences with the richer, more developed regions. i therefore warn against any attempt to 'blur' the original shape of cohesion policy and to treat the structural funds as mere instruments for implementing the 'europe 2020' strategy. i supported the report with this reservation.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the eu's main investment instrument. it is a third of the eu budget. in view of the alignment of the structural and investment funds for the 2014-2020 programming period with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, cohesion policy should be seen as a very strong eu financial instrument contributing to the achievement of the strategy's objectives. the contribution of cohesion policy to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy was also demonstrated in the previous programming period 2007-13. it is worth noting that following the 2008 crisis, cohesion policy was the only source of financing for growth policy in some member states or regions, due to the lack of public funding at national level. the need to fully implement the common strategic framework provided for in the common provisions regulation, which aims to achieve integrated development by coordinating the european structural and investment funds with other union instruments and with union policies in other areas. recent voices, particularly from southern european countries, are worrying about the revision of cohesion policy with a view to redistributing resources more to the countries most affected by the economic crisis at the expense of the less developed regions of central and eastern europe. such attempts to dismantle cohesion policy, which is intended to reduce development disparities rather than provide anti-crisis aid, cannot be tolerated.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 in its first part provides for a procedure for reprogramming or optional suspension of the structural and investment funds. there are legitimate concerns that the linguistic interpretation of the standard could lead to a breach of the subsidiarity and partnership principles underpinning cohesion policy, as well as to macroeconomic instability, to the direct or indirect exposure of local and regional authorities to negative economic and social consequences or to the financial instability of regions in economic distress. the aim of this regulation was to ensure the most sustainable and effective cohesion policy possible, which is now largely implemented in the europe 2020 strategy. the current partnership agreements and programmes with the member states focus on the implementation of this strategy, so the application of article 23 in the adoption of a functional interpretation seems possible only in a situation justified by specific, exceptional circumstances. in view of my shared concern about the potential consequences of applying article 23 in practice, i voted in favour of the resolution, which seeks to ensure a reasonable and balanced application of the reprogramming procedure and to draw attention to the undefined role and insufficient participation of the european parliament in this procedure.
in writing. ‒ allowing countries that do not respect budgetary discipline to suspend funds, in accordance with article 23 of the common provisions regulation, is the most controversial provision of the package of regulations and one that i do not support. since it cannot amend this regulation, the european parliament shall endeavour to ensure that it is applied in the most reasonable and balanced manner. it is worth emphasising that the guidelines contained in the report relate only to the first part of article 23 and concern the optional reprogramming or suspension of the structural funds and the investment funds, and not to the second part on the mandatory suspension of the funds. in addition, the report stressed the need to reduce reprogramming to the minimum necessary and stressed that the specific and relevant economic situations of the member states must be taken into account when applying article 23. any request for macroeconomic conditionality should be transparent, justified and clearly favourable to the cohesion policy objectives of the region or regions concerned. i therefore supported the report.
rapporteur.– madam president, the recent financial and economic crisis has demonstrated that the european union economies are strongly interdependent and that national policies in one member state can have important spillover effects on other member states. we have realised that more coordination of national economic policies is needed within the eu in order to prevent imbalances, ensure convergence and exploit potential synergies. the european semester, introduced in 2011 within the six—pack, is the most important instrument for national policy coordination and surveillance in the eu. each year the commission undertakes a detailed analysis of eu member states’ budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reform plans and provides them with policy recommendations for the next 12 to 18 months. these country—specific recommendations (csrs) provide guidance and advice to member states on how to stimulate growth and jobs in conformity with the europe 2020 strategy, while at the same time avoiding excessive imbalances. each year the european semester cycle starts with the annual growth survey published by the commission in the late autumn, in which key policy priorities are specified for member states and the eu a whole. it is then followed by an assessment of draft budgetary plans and country report analyses. on that basis the commission proposes country—specific recommendations, which are then discussed with national governments and are then endorsed by the european council and adopted formally by the council. drawing on experience from the previous cycles, this year the commission has proposed to shorten and streamline the whole process in order to give member states more time to react and also to focus on key priorities. we welcome these changes, while underlining the fact that further action is needed to make the coordination process more efficient and less bureaucratic. this year, priorities focus on the most important growth drivers and include investment for growth and jobs, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, structural reforms in the labour, product and services markets, and active employment policies. we support these priorities, but we think that more effort is needed to implement them effectively, especially in the area of structural reforms that are necessary for increasing potential growth in europe. these reforms should concentrate on removing barriers in the product and services markets and on making labour markets more flexible, while balancing this with the adequate protection of employees’ rights. equally important is the need to radically improve access to finance, especially for small and medium—sized enterprises, and to make the legal and administrative environment more friendly for businesses and to deal effectively with excessive indebtedness in the private sector. we share the commission’s view that continued fiscal consolidation is needed in member states with unsustainable debt levels and that strict compliance with eu fiscal rules under the reformed stability and growth pact is absolutely crucial for sustainable recovery. however, we also recognise that countries with sufficient fiscal space have the potential to further accelerate domestic investment. we also share the commission’s opinion that the actual implementation of csrs by member states leaves much to be desired. less than 15% of all csrs were actually fully implemented in 2014. thus the potential positive impact of coordination is seriously diminished. in this context, we call on member states to radically improve the implementation record through faster transposition, more active political support and, above all, strengthened national ownership. the european semester offers an opportunity for securing faster growth in europe and avoiding devastating crises in the future. i call on this house to support our report.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. each year, the commission undertakes a detailed analysis of the member states' plans for budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms and makes recommendations to them for the next 12 to 18 months, and we in parliament also assess each year the state of play and the degree to which the member states have implemented the recommendations made to them by the commission. the european semester report analyses the overall economic situation in europe, the state of implementation of reforms and possible future economic initiatives of the union. if we want real economic improvement, we must have a frank debate about the changes that need to be made and admit openly that some of the steps taken so far in the european union or in individual member states have not had the intended effect. i'll say more, we have to admit to many mistakes as well. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we are dealing with a clash of political views, not a documented analysis of the reforms needed. this will not achieve the desired effect and will allow the european union to become even more uncompetitive in relation to other economies in the world.
thank you very much. thank you. you don't want to, but you're trying to interfere. i would like to inform you that the genesis, the source of the word parliament is parlare to speak. and as long as i'm the speaker, i'll give a voice to those members who want to take a voice, according to procedure. we do have a time delay. it's not because i'm presiding, because i've only been presiding for a few minutes.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank members for this fruitful debate. parliament has an important role to play in the debating of european economic policies and the future of emu, so i have carefully taken note of members’ remarks and the points raised today. while different views and opinions were expressed during the debate, i note that there is also certain support for a new commission approach to the revamped european semester, and there are certain elements which still need to be fine—tuned to find the right way forward. on some of the issues which have been raised during this debate: firstly, environmental measures or environmental policy-related measures in the european semester bring us to the next debate on the europe 2020 strategy. but i would emphasise that we are streamlining the european semester, we are trying to focus on key social economic challenges in the member states and we are applying the ʻtell only onceʼ principle, so we are not doubling some of the advice that we are giving to the member states in the context of other eu policies. the low csr implementation is a cause of concern. it is something we need to address, but we believe the best way to address this is through improved membership in the member states so that member states, stakeholders, national parliaments, governments and social partners are better involved in decision-making and are better informed about the economic challenges both at the euro area level and the eu level, and how it goes in a national context. then on some of the questions of surplus versus deficit countries which were raised here, i must note that excessive current account surpluses are indeed also considered as a macroeconomic imbalance by the european commission, as outlined in our macroeconomic imbalance procedures. that is why countries like germany, for example, are also in macroeconomic imbalance due to a large and sustained current account surplus. we recommend strengthening investment and strengthening and stimulating the demand side of the economy. indeed the demand side of the economy is part of our economic strategy, so what we need to focus on is how to strengthen the economic recovery in europe, and of course the demand side is one of the answers. some questions were raised on the ambition of this current commission proposal and reference was made to some specific instruments, for example fiscal capacity. it must be noted that some of those elements were, for example, in the five presidents’ report where there is a reference to euro area stabilisation. this extends a similar concept since this used to be referred to in some earlier documents as fiscal capacity, and this is foreseen for stage 2 of the five presidents’ report. i have been outlining also the commissionʼs preparation of that stage 2 of the five presidents’ report so this is going to be part of that work. indeed the commission is open to looking at ways of how to ensure stronger involvement of the european parliament in the european semester and macroeconomic policy decision-making, and indeed i sense also from today’s debate that there is some further work and consideration needed.
nicolas schmit, president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this exchange, which was sometimes critical but overall always constructive. as your draft resolution indicates, we share the same priorities and, above all - and i think this is crucial - we share the same will to act, because economic results and, above all, the employment situation are not satisfactory. the european semester must be seen in the broader perspective of the work to complete economic and monetary union. it is an essential tool in enhanced governance. the luxembourg presidency has discussed the proposals of the five presidents at several ministerial meetings this autumn and we have just reported to the european council in october. the commission has made proposals a few days ago which will also be on the agenda of either council. i can already tell you that at the epsco council on 7 december we will be discussing the social aspect of the commission's proposals. this social dimension must be deepened, it must make it possible to set up an inclusive area with high performance in social and employment matters for all citizens. this is a major priority of this commission which, as i have noted, has a lot of support in parliament. it requires concrete measures to promote upward convergence and here, i would say, the best indicators, the best reference thresholds will not be enough. we need policies, we need reforms, and we also need means, resources, investment in human capital, of course, and in innovation, research, education. this is where the future of the european economy lies. i also agree - i think the person who said it is no longer here - that investments in the green economy in relation to climate change, in relation also to the promotion of renewable energy and the energy transition can not only create jobs - the so-called green jobs - but also redirect growth in europe. the council will have to continue discussions on deepening emu and we will have to be more ambitious, closer to the realities and the real problems. i agree with what has also been said by both sides, namely that the euro area is not simply the sum of the member states. the euro area must act more globally. this is what we call, what one or the other has called the fiscal stances of the euro area. in any case, i thank you again for the debate this evening, which shows that we need a broad democratic exchange both in the european parliament and in national parliaments. the need for democratic exchange is also stressed in the commission's recent proposals.
rapporteur.– thank you mr president, minister schmit, commissioner dombrovskis, dear colleagues. i would like first of all to thank all the participants who took part in this debate and all the colleagues who have expressed their views. we have not agreed on everything, of course – that would have been impossible in this house – but at least i have seen involvement and indeed a genuine willingness to discuss important matters. this debate has also shown that the issue is politically very sensitive and, indeed, this has been reflected in the process of our work on this report because we have been confronted with different expectations, different opinions, on such elementary things like: what is the actual economic situation of the union? what measures need to be taken in order to put the eu economies on a sustainable growth path? what are the reasons for the current slowdown? and so on and so forth. so we have been unable to agree on everything but, as i said, i tried very much to come up with a compromise – of course at the cost of some clarity and perhaps insufficient focus on all important matters, but still i thought that having a broad majority in favour of this report would be important. i would like to express my thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs who have participated in this difficult negotiation process. as i said, we have not agreed on everything, but at least they have shown consistently their willingness to cooperate, willingness to discuss, and i would like to express my appreciation. now one problem with this kind of report comes with the application of rule 54 which obliges the rapporteur to include the opinions presented by other parliamentary committees. sometimes those opinions are longer than the report itself, so of course this always comes at the cost of conciseness. some of the voices we have heard are saying that the report possibly lacks sufficient focus. if so, it is probably due to this. i am flagging up this issue to our distinguished colleagues because i think that we should probably have a look into this part of our rules of procedure. i would like to ask all members to support the report in tomorrow’s vote.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 october 2015.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by mr thomas händl, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market (o-000121/2015 - b8-1102/2015 - (2015/2820 ((rsp))).
madam president! it is realistic to say that among the longterm unemployed there is a group for whom it is difficult or even impossible to motivate them to work, that they have no desire to improve their living conditions and that there is little that can be done for them. others, though, can be helped by using better methods. this requires a deliberate effort and the individualized application of sociological and psychological knowledge. the general training courses, such as computer skills or assertiveness, which are so often offered, are not appropriate. you have to train people in specialized fields, and that training should be much more individualized, i would say, intelligent. the way in which the effectiveness of employment offices and other training centres for the unemployed is assessed needs to be fundamentally changed. the measure should be the actual results in the occupational activation of the unemployed.
in writing. the problem of long-term unemployment affects all member states and the challenges associated with it are extremely difficult. i am all the more pleased that an attempt has been made to develop a comprehensive approach to this subject at european level. although the proportion of longterm unemployed varies considerably across the member states, the group is quite heterogeneous across the union and i believe that it is possible to develop a uniform strategy. i think it is important that the commission, alongside other activities, focuses on capacity building of competent, well-trained staff in public employment services. this is a very important issue, especially in the context of the creation of 'single points of contact' in many member states. this will be a new approach and the preparation of the points will require a considerable amount of time and resources for training. i look forward to the commission's further concrete proposals.
in writing. while many countries are trying to tackle longterm unemployment in different ways, the ideal solution to the challenge has not yet been found. i believe that, as with many other problems, the key issue in longterm unemployment is job creation. only if the european economy grows in a sustainable and stable way will we be able to improve employment rates. this is linked to the creation of a friendly environment for investors and businesses, and this is what member states should focus on. the second, equally important, issue is the provision of appropriate and personalised support for the longterm unemployed. more efficient and decentralised employment services are part of the answer to this challenge. it is also very important to activate the unemployed by addressing them with solutions tailored to their needs and to the situation in the local labour markets. in this context, structural reforms are also needed to adapt labour markets to new challenges, as well as, as has been emphasised so often recently, better cooperation between employment services and educational institutions. in addition to support and self-esteem, the long-term unemployed need the relevant skills and qualifications that are currently in demand in local markets.
in writing. continuing and intensifying action to tackle long-term unemployment is crucial, especially in view of the lack of clear progress in this area. in my country, the longterm unemployed account for almost 50% of the total unemployed. long-term unemployment often leads to poverty and social exclusion, further isolating people from the labour market. in the context of the fight against long-term unemployment, i would like to draw attention to the effectiveness of training programmes for the long-term unemployed. i am often approached by people who have completed numerous vocational education courses and who, despite having acquired many additional skills, are still unable to find a job. to counter such cases, we need more effective tools to activate the unemployed and support public employment services in this respect. the vocational programmes and training for the long-term unemployed proposed should take into account the possibility of practical training and traineeships in the field. this approach will allow the unemployed to validate their skills, gain experience often already required for the job, build self-confidence and thus increase their chances of getting a job.
president lunacek, my predecessor, said there would be no blue card procedure because it was too late. it's not my place to change it.
mr. chairman, please! the europe 2020 strategy has two distinct educational objectives. the first is to reduce the proportion of young people who leave school early to below 10%. and that is the goal that is beyond doubt. the second of these targets is to increase the proportion of young people with higher education to 40% by 2020 and in this respect we are very close to reaching the formal level, as the eu average was almost 38% in 2014. the problem is that these young people are not finding jobs that match their academic qualifications. this, of course, frustrates them. the commissioner therefore asks: do you not think that the formal achievement of the objective will be useless if we do not ensure the high quality of education, its coherence with the needs of the labour market and, above all, job creation?
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr renato soru, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions (com (2014) 0040 - c7-0023/2014 - 2014/0017 (cod)) (a8-0120/2015).
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, this new regulation will certainly bring an additional dose of transparency to the ways in which the financial sector functions. we will have a better view of what is going on in the shadow banking system – who transacts with whom, when, with what type of assets and under what conditions. this will certainly help market participants. i also trust that transparency might prevent activities migrating from the banking system to the less regulated non-bank system. in this respect i find it particularly important that information on the securities financing transactions entered into by funds – and i am thinking here of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and structured financial instruments (sfis) – is disclosed to investors. the good news is also that the three institutions agreed to use the opportunity of this regulation to make two amendments to the european market infrastructure regulation (emir). one will give the resolution authorities established after the entry into force of emir the right to access information retained in trade repositories. we all know the importance for resolution authorities of having good quality supervisory data. we have also made a technical change which is expected to make it easier for the commission to declare the supervisory arrangements of a third country as equivalent under emir. i am personally happy that we agreed on the exemption of smes from the reporting requirements: when they transact with a fund, a bank or an investment firm, it is the counterparty that will deal with reporting on behalf of both parties.
on behalf of the ecr group. the main objective of the report was to enhance financial stability in the european union. this objective can be achieved by increasing the transparency of market activities such as securities financing transactions, pawnshops and other financing structures with economic effects equivalent to those of securities financing transactions. the ecr group, in cooperation with the epp and alde, has submitted amendments which we believe have succeeded in mitigating many of the controversial issues raised in the original draft of this report: among others, the reduction of the public disclosure requirements for listed companies to a minimum, the gradual introduction of the obligation to notify transactions and the removal of the provision on the reduction of the value of collateral. but i am personally very cautious about some of the mechanisms that are used to achieve this goal.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on access to finance for smes (2015/2906 ((rsp)).
99% of companies in the european union are smes. they play a key role in the eu's overall economy, creating over 90 million jobs. this is why we must create the conditions for their functioning and development, especially as regards their ability to raise capital for current activities and investments. the european commission must step up its work in this area. small and medium-sized enterprises need to be helped to become more independent of the need for bank debt. conditions must be created for better access to finance in the form of grants and loans or credit guarantees. support smes in their efforts to gain better access to markets worldwide and to find ways to reduce business risks. it is necessary to simplify the procedures for access to financial instruments, and to introduce clear and understandable eligibility criteria. the purpose of the checks on the use of the funds is to eliminate errors and not to remove operators from the market. a comprehensive approach to supporting entrepreneurship is needed, because without it the eu economy will face new problems sooner or later.
in my talks with entrepreneurs who run small and medium-sized businesses, the biggest problem in central and eastern europe is securing the liquidity of those companies (and there are many) that cannot get their debts from their customers on time. there is also a lack of crisis financing instruments - such as guarantees and loans - for businesses that are insolvent but capable of recovery and restructuring. it should therefore be the union's task to put in place the appropriate instruments and to encourage member states and the banking sector to find ways of addressing this problem. it is worth noting that the lack of suitable financing limits the expansion of our region's enterprises within the common market and makes the introduction of new standards at european level a threat to their existence. this creates differences in the conditions of competition in the common market which are discriminatory for firms in our region.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the s&d group. well, i wanted to make a very strong point that every day more and more civilian drones appear in our skies. and that's exciting, but it also shows that we're seeing technology evolve, and that drones are going to be a sustainable and evolving phenomenon. the problem is that technological progress is not accompanied by adequate legal solutions. the eu member states regulate the use of drones in very different ways. in my s&d group's view, this is precisely the area in which the european union institutions must actively engage, since this is the subject objectively relevant for eu regulation. the civil use of drones is not limited by the borders of any country. there are two fundamental problems to be solved. the first problem is that drones have to be able to navigate safely in air traffic, and the long problem - and we've talked about this today - is privacy. i think mrs foster's report is very apt to highlight these two aspects. i think it is a very valuable and interesting document. as these two areas, namely security issues but also important privacy issues, are clearly covered here, my group will continue to be very active in the work on this document.
in writing. the last 15 years have seen a dramatic increase in the use of remotely piloted aerial systems (rpas), commonly known as drones. they are also becoming more popular in poland. these devices undoubtedly contribute to the success of the military operations for which they were originally designed. the use of these systems is particularly beneficial for infrastructure safety and monitoring, natural disaster assessment, precision farming and media production. the most worrying issue, however, is the commercial use of drones by private individuals and the lack of community legislation in this area. i believe that clear, harmonised and proportionate regulations should be developed, which do not burden companies that invest and innovate in the rpas sector. on the other hand, they must ensure that citizens are adequately protected and that sustainable and innovative jobs are created. the illegal and dangerous use of drones, such as converting them from civilian equipment into weapons or disrupting navigation or communication systems, especially at airports, should be taken into account. the effects of the proposed regulation must be weighed. i would like to stress once again that it must protect all our lives, and that is why european law should cover the use of drones; however, it cannot restrict the newly created market too much, because it will make it less attractive to investors and customers.
in writing. there are currently around 5 000 registered drone operators worldwide. half of them are based in europe. the number of facilities we have is already difficult to verify. so it is easy to imagine the scale of the various dangers associated with the use of drones today. the urgency of the regulation is therefore extraordinary. the certification of objects weighing more than 150 kg is absolutely insufficient, mainly because of the technological possibilities of creating very large objects, but lighter. i also want to emphasise the importance and the potential of the gnss system that has been developed and implemented and the need to focus not only on the user but also on the objects themselves. their mandatory labelling should be introduced fairly quickly, also to reduce the risks associated with the transport of objects across eu borders.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: tourism is an extremely important and very sensitive sector of the european economy. europe is now the world leader in tourism, but it is not a given. we must be prepared to meet the challenges of the present and look for ways to continuously increase the attractiveness of our continent to tourists. the main objective is to break the seasonality of the sector, which will increase employment and diversify the offer to tourists from all over the world. religious tourism and pilgrimages play an important role here. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. this is what the digital age and the emerging sharing economy model are providing us with. we should be ready to take advantage of these new phenomena. however, the future of the european tourism sector is also threatened, including by the problems caused by the uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants into the european union. the images from the coasts of greece, croatia and italy make us wonder how much the tourism industry is losing as a result of this crisis. i would like the commission to look at this problem in depth and to answer this question without political correctness.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the tourism industry is growing steadily and is considered one of the largest in the world, providing more than 255 million jobs and generating 9% of gdp annually. in the european union, tourism is the third largest socioeconomic activity after trade and distribution and construction. it is also a key sector for my country, for my province, for the subcarpathian province, which has an extremely rich tourist offer, ranging from nature, landscapes, to tourist attractions of subcarpathian cities. it's also a very attractive economic region, where global companies are investing. 90% of the aviation industry is built in the carpathian basin. however, to keep up the pace of development, the industry needs continuous innovation and improvement, and i appeal to the european commission to do so.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs isabel de monte on a comprehensive report which not only presents the potential of the tourism sector but also proposes some promising new solutions, such as the introduction of the european year of tourism and the european quality label for family-friendly tourism. i believe that the potential of specialised and social tourism is still not fully exploited, since by providing greater access, they also help to extend the tourist season, which is crucial for the sector's steady growth. i agree with the rapporteur that the introduction of the 'tourism for all' principle will help citizens to enjoy their rights more fully, especially those with special needs, such as the elderly, the disabled, families with children, people with limited income, etc. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the introduction of the european disability charter. this document, which allows europeans with disabilities travelling to access the facilities and incentives offered to this group by individual countries, local authorities or cultural institutions, can certainly contribute to greater mobility of disabled people and to better use by this important group of citizens of the european tourism offer. in addition, i would like to stress the crucial importance of adequate training of staff, including young entrepreneurs planning a career in the tourism sector, in particular by equipping them with practical skills and experience through work placements and high-quality traineeships.
i voted against the budget because the budget is increased compared to last year, and i promised that i would never vote for an increase in the budget. besides, i think the european union must be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to protest against the decision you just made, understanding that it is time to end the october session. however, i would like you to convey my point that vice-presidents should make very responsible decisions. if they decide to withdraw explanations of vote on tuesday and wednesday, they are closing the procedure to all those who wish to use it, because it is obvious that if we accumulate this procedure over these two or three days, we will not be able to serve all the members. it is very unfair to all those who, after today's vote, wanted to explain their decision, why they voted in this way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the amendments to the rules of procedure.
you are absolutely right. thank you for your remark.
i entirely agree with you and i will inform the bureau and personally inform president schulz of your suggestion.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of these rules is to strengthen the supervision of securities financing transactions and to increase the transparency of these transactions. the rules are in line with international work in this area and require the reporting of securities financing, securities lending and securities borrowing transactions. that's why i corrected the report.
in writing. ‒ looking at current macroeconomic indicators, there are signs of economic recovery in eu markets. however, it should be stressed that its foundations are fragile, which has a negative impact on the eu's steady growth and international competitiveness. the eu's single market remains fragmented and lacks innovation. in some member states, there are persistent macroeconomic imbalances (high levels of public and private debt, large current account gaps, excessive risk in the financial sector). the persistently high unemployment rate in most member states is a worrying phenomenon. attention is drawn to the need for significant structural reforms, as well as to focus on creating the conditions for flexible labour markets, adapting education systems to labour market needs and shifting the tax burden from labour to other areas. in addition, the very low implementation rate of the recommendations for individual member states is to be noted, which makes it difficult to coordinate national economic policies with european recommendations. it should be noted that the number of countries under the excessive deficit procedure has decreased from 11 to 9 in the current year. the entry into force of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) regulation, which is intended to stimulate private and public investment in the eu, is a step in the right direction. the eu's business environment needs to be further improved and productivity levels raised by a balanced combination of public and private education and innovation policy.
in writing. ‒ long-term unemployment now affects 12 million eu citizens, or half of the unemployed. the long-term unemployed are 'difficult clients' of employment agencies, usually with low qualifications, a narrow skill range or unregulated residence and recognition issues, as in the case of immigrants; they have a harder time entering and remaining in the labour market. the necessary resources, such as personalised services and programmes, are expensive and not always available. despite the cost and scale of long-term unemployment, only 20% of the programmes to combat unemployment cover them. i therefore support the commission's guidelines to member states to improve the way in which long-term unemployed people are helped to return to work: individual assessment and counselling for those who have been unemployed for more than 12 months and a written agreement on vocational integration offering a concrete, individual plan for returning to work before 18 months of unemployment. in the context of these efforts, i would like to draw attention to the social economy and social cooperative institutions which effectively exploit the potential of the longterm unemployed and the excluded. an example of the use of this institution is the polish organization barka from poznan, which has helped thousands of excluded people in poland and abroad, bringing them back into the social mainstream through work. barka bases its method on social cooperative institutions and social support programmes built at the local government level. i therefore call for the wider integration of social cooperatives and the social economy into european policies to combat longterm unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the report on the civil use of remotely piloted unmanned aerial systems (rps), commonly known as drones, aims to ensure that any proposed eu regulation in this area is consistent with a global, harmonised and proportionate approach and is also developed with a view to risk taking, which will promote the safe use of these systems while not creating unnecessary burdens for industry. parliament stresses that technology originally developed for military purposes is now increasingly used commercially and provides significant societal benefits through the ability to carry out safety audits of infrastructure such as railway tracks, dams and power stations, natural disaster assessment, precision agriculture operations and media capabilities. there is a huge potential for growth in this sector, from the producer to the end user level, both for large companies and for a supply chain of thousands of smes, and any policy framework at eu level must be growth-friendly if european companies are to be globally competitive. parliament recognises the need to safeguard the public interest and stresses that while safety and security are of paramount importance in all actions and policies relating to the gsp, data protection and privacy are also of paramount importance in order to gain public acceptance for the development of this type of service. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ remotely piloted unmanned aerial systems, or popularly known as drones, are a permanent part of our environment. from military to commercial to recreational use, the number of such unmanned machines is steadily increasing. new problems are also emerging that are not well defined. one of the most important is the safety of these machines. the cases of drone disruption are the most spectacular, but there are other areas that need to be regulated, such as the privacy concerns of drone users. despite legislative efforts by member states, it is necessary for the european commission to develop a legal framework that sets a european standard for the production and use of remotely piloted aerial systems. it is important to establish rules for the mutual recognition by member states of the privileges to fly such aircraft for commercial purposes. we need to create a system of registration of such machines which, in the event of a threat to life and health, will make it possible to identify the owner easily, also in another member state. it is necessary to establish a catalogue of technical parameters identifying drones intended for different purposes in order to make this distinction clear and understandable for both manufacturers and users. the report by ms foster sets out all these challenges in a comprehensive and precise way and draws clear conclusions for the commission. i voted to accept it.
in writing. ‒ the report is a contribution to the commission's deliberations to be presented at the ordinary meeting of the european tourism forum. it proposes actions in the areas of the sharing economy, digitalisation, sustainable and responsible tourism, and the promotion of europe as the main destination for tourist trips. it also calls for better cooperation between the member states and the commission. as regards the actions undertaken since 2010, the report requested the commission to report to parliament on the use of the structural funds and relevant eu programmes for tourism. the report stresses the need to promote, protect and preserve europe's cultural heritage. without prejudice to the separate budget line for tourism in the next multiannual financial framework and the initiative to create a european tourism agency, as another example of the growth of european bureaucracy, i decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ europe is now the world's number one tourist destination. however, global trends in tourism are undergoing significant changes. europe is projected to be overtaken by other continents by 2030 as a result of globalisation. tourism in the eu is under strong pressure from other international tourist destinations, especially emerging and cheaper ones. tourism is the third largest economic sector in europe (generating almost 10% of european gdp). other sectors of the economy, such as agriculture, transport and culture, also benefit from tourism. tourism plays a significant role in job creation. it is also crucial for the economic recovery of those countries that have been particularly affected by the economic crisis. it also draws attention to the fact that tourism is an area where smes are particularly active. they make up 99% of the industry. the challenges facing tourism in europe are the effects of demographic change, high youth unemployment, changing consumer behaviour, the increasing demand for high quality customer service, the need for digitalisation. the european institutions should take action to attract new investment, to stimulate growth, to improve the business environment. european funds must support tourism in europe. the key issue seems to be to ensure a well-functioning single market for services. in addition, it is necessary to follow market trends and to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. digitalisation seems to be the key to the development of tourism.
in writing. ‒ a report produced by the european parliament on its own initiative highlights that europe is the main destination for tourists from all over the world it is estimated that by 2025 the number of visitors each year will reach 140 million. this is linked to the need for the european union to take action to promote the sharing economy, digitalisation, sustainable and responsible tourism and to promote europe as a top destination. to this end, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the member states and the commission and for the commission to report to the european parliament on the use made of the financial resources allocated to tourism under the structural funds and the relevant union programmes. it is clear to me that the tourism services sector in europe is developing very rapidly and that action is needed to promote, protect and preserve european cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the importance of tourism to the european economy is best illustrated by the figures. it generates around 10% of eu gdp and directly employs 13 million workers, not counting the huge number of seasonal workers. our position as the world's leading tourism provider is under threat, however, as globalisation and falling travel costs are giving other continents a premium. so we have to face this challenge now and find a way to maintain and strengthen our current advantage. an interesting tool that can help with this is a new tourism brand promoting europe as a destination for foreign tourists. the aim of the project is to develop a european tourism strategy that will be more effective and more efficient in terms of the promotion of tourism in the regions. we must also make better use of the unique cultural heritage of our continent, including its christian heritage. the tourism sector, including the resorts in the kujawy-pomeranian voivodeship, has the potential to attract large numbers of tourists from other continents. the internet and new technologies offer a huge opportunity to reach new customers with the european tourism offering, and the sharing economy offers new tools to take advantage of this offer. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market and its impact on the tourism industry. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for action to be taken and improvements to be made to current air navigation systems, which do not allow for the timely identification and location of aircraft in distress. this was illustrated by the tragic flights of malaysia airlines flight 370 and air france flight 447. one technology that can be helpful in tracking flights outside the most densely populated areas where other types of ground-based aircraft tracking systems operate in a limited way is identified as ads-b (automatic dependent surveillance - alert) satellite technology. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) has requested the international telecommunication union (itu) to allocate the necessary radio spectrum band. parliament supported the commission's efforts to rapidly develop effective global flight tracking systems that would enable the location of public transport aircraft to be determined at any time, even in remote areas. the commission also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps at the world radiocommunication conference in 2015 to allocate the radio spectrum band necessary for this future global satellite flight tracking system. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the european commission has already improved the european semester somewhat by changing the timetable for analysing and discussing the economic situation in the euro area and the union as a whole. the next steps are aimed at deeper economic and fiscal integration. the new european semester is also to focus more on social and employment aspects, with the social partners playing a central role. i support the fact that the commission intends to focus on this way also on the social impact assessment in macroeconomic adjustment programmes on a regular basis. while this will undoubtedly have positive effects, i would like to recall that the european semester is first and foremost a process of enhanced coordination of the economic policies of the member states, the main aim of which is to take better account of the european dimension in the planning of national economic strategies, rather than to make decisions which are strictly within the member states the subject of debate and analysis at european level. i cannot help feeling that all the failures of the euro area and the problems arising from the differences between the economies of the union are being held up as an example of further deeper integration. the commission cites the example of the united states, which speaks with one voice in international economic and financial forums. in addressing the honourable committee, comparing europe to the united states is completely inappropriate. after all, the united states is one country, and the european union is twenty-eight sovereign countries. while i support better coordination of economic policies, especially in the euro area countries which have a common currency and are interdependent, i cannot support the commission's plans to create further supranational entities, such as the european budgetary council.
mr president, i am very happy that we are having this debate ahead of the publication of the annual growth survey, because it gives us a unique opportunity to convey our views to the commission and actually, i hope, to influence the commission’s thinking on policy priorities for the next year. on those priorities, i fully agree with vice-president dombrovskis. i think the priorities as formulated this year will also remain valid for next year – that is, number one: investment; number 2: structural reforms; and number 3: fiscal responsibility. and to all those who do not like fiscal responsibility, i would like to assure them that these are precisely the means and the instruments, not the goals themselves, but the means and instruments to accelerate growth and create more and better jobs. there are still some weaknesses in the framework, and weakness number one is of course the very low rate of implementation of csrs in member states. i think we are going to hear from the commission how it wants to incentivise member states in order to ensure better implementation. the other weakness is the lack of national ownership, and this is again something we have been talking about for quite a long time. i would like to see the proposals from the commission aimed at increasing national ownership. there are also some new threats ahead. we see that growth is still weak in the european union. we are lagging behind the us in terms of recovery, and there are also new risks on the horizon, like slow growth in china and geopolitical risk. mr vice-president of the commission, all of this requires ambitious and determined effort. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do not think this is directly relevant to the macro-economic political priorities for the next year, but this certainly is one of the most important challenges ahead of us. we are definitely making progress in addressing this issue. we are not just talking now about distributing refugees across countries, but we have started to talk about creating safe zones around syria; we are talking about hot spots and about better controls at the external borders. but certainly the economic impact of refugees is a mixed issue; to some extent refugees can contribute to economic growth, and we have many examples of those contributions. on the other hand, the whole process has to be controlled better in order not to create chaos.
mr. chairman, please! the data provided show that the union is slowly emerging from the economic crisis. most member states have seen economic growth, and 23 eu countries have seen unemployment fall. this year has seen developments that will certainly shape the economic situation in europe in the years ahead. it is becoming increasingly clear that china, one of the engines of the world economy, is beginning to experience enormous problems. many european companies will have to revise their growth strategy and possibly reduce their workforce. the second problem, which is sure to have a significant economic impact, is the influx of refugees into europe. no one is currently in a position to estimate the impact of this process on the labour market in the member states and the budgetary costs involved. these labour market consequences and the increase in budgetary expenditure will certainly have to be taken into account in the european semester. stable growth in job creation is of vital importance for labour markets. our priority should continue to be to maintain the stability of member states' public finances while financing thoughtful structural reforms with long-term positive effects on the economy and employment. it is also necessary to deepen integration within the common market based on the free movement of workers, services and capital.
in writing. the annual growth survey published by the european commission starts a new cycle of economic governance each year and sets out the eu's economic priorities and policy guidance for the member states for the following year. the commission's 2016 growth analysis, which is in the preparation phase, takes as a starting point the assumptions of 2015, in which the commission recommended the implementation of economic and social policies based on three pillars: investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. the priority has been and is to get europe back on track to create sustainable jobs and sustainable growth. however, it is worrying that despite these efforts, the economic recovery in the eu weakened significantly in 2014 and the unemployment rate in the euro area still stands at a record high of 12%. the level of investment has decreased since 2008 by around eur 470 billion, and the investment gap is estimated at around eur 230 to 370 billion. clear progress is needed in the fight against high unemployment and poverty. growth across the eu can only be achieved through cooperation between member states and structural reforms. the need for strong action at national level with the involvement of member states' parliaments and social partners. the principle of sound public accounts must be the basis for national and european budgets to ensure economic stability in the eu.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. airlines today face many challenges in terms of competitiveness both in the domestic market and in dealing with carriers worldwide. the internal market is primarily a set of legal and financial rules, as well as restrictions such as the intra-eu emissions trading system, which are clearly weakening european fleets. i personally hope - and i ask you very much, commissioner - that the commission's december proposal, which will be presented, will increase the competitiveness of the sector and present a long-term strategy for its development - for the aviation sector. in this context, i would also like to stress the very important role of regional airports, such as my own, in my district, in my region, the port of jasionka, which is today in the complementary network and is absolutely predisposed to eventually be a very important port relieving the large ports in my country. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to ensure that this proposal, which we are awaiting, is one which will contribute strategically to the development of the aviation industry in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the steady growth in air passenger numbers is a source of pride and undeniable success for european airlines. however, the confidence of customers and the increasing affordability of this means of transport have their ups and downs. the european commission rightly wants to address the present and future challenges of the sector by designing an air package. however, such a set of regulations must not lead to a slowdown in the dynamic development of the european aviation industry, in particular by imposing significant financial and administrative burdens on operators. the safety of pilots, passengers and ground staff must be our priority, and we must find a way to eliminate threats to air traffic early. it is also important to foster innovation, which is key to building effective air traffic control tools. we should invest, albeit more wisely than before, in infrastructure, both in airports and in road links to improve communications between airports and urban areas. we must also ensure that european airlines are not subjected to unfair pressure in the global aviation market by competition which does not respect free market principles. i would like the commission's proposal to address these challenges.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the aviation industry contributes significantly to economic growth, employment, the development of service tourism and its accompanying activities, people-to-people contacts, citizens' mobility and the regional and social cohesion of the european union. the aviation sector provides more than five million jobs and contributes to european gdp of nearly eur 365 billion. these data show how important and future-oriented this sector is, and at the same time we are aware of the many problems facing this industry in europe. we must therefore take action to ensure fair competition, a good network, passenger safety, which is possible thanks to the increased safety of the whole sector, and the rights of workers and passengers. on the other hand, the implementation of the single european sky needs to be accelerated, as the current fragmentation places a heavy burden on european air carriers, which in turn reduces the competitiveness of the whole sector. i hope that the european commission will take appropriate and rapid action in this area and i am convinced that the adoption of the text of the resolution will be an important step towards formulating a long-term effective strategy for the whole european aviation sector.
in writing.– the future aviation package is intended to enhance the eu’s air transport economy. the european union’s aviation sector is exposed to constant change, therefore the commission proposes ideas that will hopefully adjust to that situation and help to improve the effectiveness of that area. i believe that the aviation package should focus on sustaining the social, as well as safety standards, especially regarding the fact that currently we are facing issues such as pay-to-fly contracts, and therefore we have to approach that subject with a rational consideration. moreover, there has been an idea of introducing the necessity of enhancing the medical assessment of the cabin crew as well as pilots, which i agree with. i believe that this constitutes the safety standard of the aviation which is a crucial matter in this area. all in all, i believe that it is important to establish such a package, mostly because of the fact that the aviation sector constitutes 2.4% of the eu’s gdp and supports around 2.6 million jobs; however this is not a matter that should be prioritised.
in writing. i would like to focus on three main issues. the aircraft package that the commission will propose should support development and innovation in the area of remotely piloted unmanned aerial systems, commonly known as drones, as this is an extremely fast and dynamic industry. however, the regulations on safe use and marking of drones should not be overlooked as this is essential for proper identification and safety. i am also pleased that the report includes elements that strengthen easa's position and encourage the use of the civil satellite systems that the eu has to ensure better flight safety in the eu. this is a very good direction.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ms corazza bildt, i can inform you that the president is looking into the matter. ms le pen, on a point of order.
mr cramer, on a point of order.
the matter is being looked into. mr obermayr, on a point of order.
i think it is the wrong translation. mr mélenchon, on a point of order.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
the vote is therefore closed.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the zero-rating practice (2015/2916 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. a few weeks ago we celebrated the adoption of a telecoms package that will end roaming in 2017 and our citizens will not have to worry about bills when they go on holiday. the compromise is the first regulation in eu history to ensure an open internet and net neutrality principles at the european level. i therefore find it difficult to understand why, a few weeks after the adoption of this package by a large majority, our socialist and green colleagues are trying to overturn this order. consumers have the right to choose, and the market should be free. free services are good for consumers, so as meps elected by our citizens we should not be against solutions that are good for them. i would remind my colleagues that under the agreement, national regulators will have the right to intervene in cases of abuse.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the financing of the two new eu trust funds for syria and africa and the contribution of the member states to these funds (2015/2915 ((rsp)).
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the european commission has set up trust funds to support stability-building and to contribute to better practical management of migration. by definition, a trust fund is a mechanism used in the field of development cooperation to pool significant resources from different donors. the european union has allocated substantial resources to mobilise these funds, but expects member states to complement this support. so far, few countries have provided concrete assistance. question: what steps will the european commission take to change this situation? and the second thing. some member states, including poland, will allocate substantial funds to other programmes, such as the world food programme. the next question for the commission representatives: how consistent are the new trust funds with the existing funds and programmes?
madam president! 97 years ago, on november 11, 1918, poland regained its independence. this happened after 123 years of bloody battles tribute to polish blood spilled on numerous battlefields. i pay tribute to the heroes of the struggle for polish independence, the builders of the second republic, the victims of world war ii, the cursed soldiers, the victims of communist terror, president lech kaczyński and other victims of the smolensk catastrophe. i'll pay tribute to their memory.
in writing. ‒ this decision establishes a programme for interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (the 'isa2 programme') for the years 2016-2020, following on from the successful isa programme which is coming to an end. the main objective of the isa2 programme is to facilitate efficient and effective electronic cross-border or cross-sectoral interactions between european public administrations on the one hand and between european public administrations and businesses and citizens on the other. the modernisation of european public administrations and the enhancement of their interoperability are important in order to enable european citizens to benefit fully from interoperable e-services. such modernisation will contribute to the digital transformation that will make public services more transparent, efficient and user-friendly. the digital transformation of cross-border services is the next step towards the creation of a digital single market. the cost of the isa2 programme is estimated at eur 131 million. that's why i supported the resolutions.
in writing. ‒ in the 21st century, it is crucial to take action to improve the use of existing as well as new cross-border and interoperable solutions for public administrations, not only because of the ongoing digitalisation process in today's world, but also because such solutions bring significant savings and facilitation for both public authorities and citizens. the isa programme, which ran from 2010 to 2015 and supported the introduction of interoperable solutions for public administrations, businesses and citizens in the european union, will end at the end of this year. this has created the need for a new programme, called isa2. the european parliament's legislative resolution has rightly outlined the methods that will lead to better public sector interoperability, such as facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises, making full use of the opportunities offered by new technologies or overcoming electronic barriers between member states. that is why i have decided to support this resolution in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of interoperability solutions for european public administration, businesses and citizens – new isa programme. given that the current isa programme will expire in less than two months, since it is valid only until the end of the year 2015, there is a need for establishing the new, improved programme. first of all, the project focuses on overcoming electronic barriers between member states through promoting existing common specification, but on the other hand focuses on developing the new common standards. this seems to be a crucial issue considering the era we live in. moreover, what also attracted my attention is the fact that the new programme considers creating an instrument to facilitate the re-use of existing interoperability solutions and identifying those areas in which such solutions are still missing. the proposal’s objectives are very promising and, if achieved, will prove to be a decisive step towards the improvement of the activities of the whole european union.
madam president! i voted against the report, i'll vote against these reforms. i wanted to remind you that in germany before world war i, every country had a different voting system. when adolf hitler came to power, he immediately unified all the systems, because that's the old european union method of following in the footsteps of his spiritual master adolf hitler: "everything has to be unified". and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed.
in writing. ‒ electoral law is a matter for a sovereign nation state, not this chamber. it is a mistake to detach the electoral process from the national context in favour of further artificial attempts to create a european demos. control and imposing the electoral process on the people will not bring more democracy. on the contrary, they have alienated the citizens from their representatives. the amendment on the creation of a pan-european constituency, which would elect several dozen meps, is particularly damaging, and this choice would translate into a decision on the election of the president of the european commission. that is why i voted against the report prepared by the grand coalition of the chadian and socialist parties. the daily workings of the european parliament give a clear picture of the vision of 'democracy' that the two largest political blocs want to impose on the peoples of europe. i am sure that the member states will object to the report's findings.
in writing. ‒ today's vote on the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union is an important step towards increasing the democratic dimension of european elections, strengthening citizenship of the union and the efficiency of the work of the european parliament. although the possibility of a uniform electoral procedure based on direct universal suffrage was already envisaged in the 1957 treaty of rome, elections to the european parliament are still largely based on national rules. campaigns in domestic political arenas do not represent the real vision and interests represented by the european parliament. i agree with the rapporteurs that the names and logos of european political parties on ballot papers and on election posters will affect their recognition. nevertheless, it is important to increase the democratic dimension of the european elections and the turnout, which in poland did not exceed 24% in 2014. in this context, the proposals to extend the right to vote in european elections to all citizens of the union living outside its territory, as well as the possibilities of electronic, internet and postal voting, are welcome. in addition, the introduction of a common deadline of 12 weeks before election day for the drawing up of lists at national level and for the nomination of the main candidates by european political parties will streamline and harmonise the procedure. the provision on increasing the presence of women on the electoral rolls is also a great success. i therefore welcome the outcome of today's vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the reform of the electoral law in the european union because it breaks the principle of proportionality by interfering with the sphere of competence of the member states. there is no need to harmonise rules on european political parties, the voting age or the opening hours of polling stations. i regret that the european parliament has adopted a report which is aimed at introducing a uniform procedure in the member states in breach of the fundamental principles laid down in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for the harmonisation of rules on, inter alia, the visibility of european political parties, the introduction of a mandatory voting threshold of 3-5%; the introduction of the rule that elections end at the same time in all member states, i.e. at 21:00, the harmonisation of the minimum voting age of 16 years, and the guarantee of gender equality on the electoral rolls for the european parliament. this report clearly aims at the introduction of a uniform electoral procedure in the member states, as is explicitly stated in its content, and it interferes with the sphere of member states, which should be considered as a violation of the principle of proportionality. that is why i could not support this report.
in writing. ‒ almost 40 years after the establishment of the legal framework for elections to the european parliament, some changes have been necessary, which are in line with the spirit of the times and involve a significant increase in the powers of the parliament. the proposed changes, such as the nomination of the european commission president by each european political party, or the placing of party names and logos on ballot papers, will significantly increase the visibility of european political parties, thus bringing the european parliament closer to the citizens of the european union. some of the issues, such as harmonising the minimum voting age and setting it at 16, should not, in my view, be included in the final text of the report, but the document as a whole is moving in the right direction and that is why i decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the electoral law of the european union. the report aims to introduce several direct changes to the electoral act 1976. those changes are the harmonised ideas created in order to strengthen the democratic dimension of the european elections and to reinforce the functioning of the european parliament, as well as the governance of the whole european union. i find this report to be a fresh perspective and it is rather an interesting proposition which comprises several new, innovative factors. firstly, it covers the idea of improving the visibility of european political parties by placing their names and logos on the ballot papers, which is a simple strategy that may in fact prove to be very effective. moreover, it tries to introduce an obligatory threshold for the allocation of seats in single-constituency member states and constituencies which comprise more than 26 seats, ranging between 3% and 5% for member states using the list system. i believe that the provisions of the report will enhance the electoral equality of european citizens, which is one of our fundamental values.
in writing. ‒ on the joint resolution of the epp, the socialists and the liberals, i abstained because i believe that the current eu and national employment rules should be respected in order to ensure adequate skills and working conditions. in addition, modern and competitive business models should be maintained as they help airlines to increase productivity and allow them to compete effectively in the wider market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
mr president, i believe this resolution comes just in time to show the eu’s commitment in advancing the doha development agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all. the proposed provisions support the structural reform of the world trade organization. this reform will, hopefully, contribute to a better and more open trade system – a more non-discriminatory trade system – based on shared and applied rules. i believe that change is necessary. i believe that the wto system must change to be more efficient and better suited to reality – to the real problems – and better suited to fulfil its role in helping smes and micro-enterprises and also innovative start-ups. i hope that this resolution will embrace the specific interest of the low-income developing countries and the least-developed countries as well, because it supports the establishing of appropriate definitions of low—income developing countries and emerging economies as well. this will help resolve the recurring problem, for example, with china in the wto system. lastly, i believe the provisions of the resolution aim to ensure sustainable economic growth and development by supporting liberalisation through accompanying policies. taking all this into consideration, i fully support this resolution. i believe that it will suit, and be beneficial for, all the members of the wto.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. as you have said, the 10th wto ministerial conference in december will be the first to be held in an african country. as the 2001 ad-dauhy declaration clearly indicates the link between trade and development, it is the interests and needs of developing countries that must remain at the heart of every aspect of the negotiations. over two thirds of the members of the world trade organization are developing countries. the elimination of trade barriers, as well as the prevention of the emergence of new ones, is an important tool for sustainable economic growth and development. experts estimate that a successful conclusion to the negotiations with ad-dauhy on this issue will lead to an increase in global gdp of up to $300 billion per year. the majority of this increase will be in developing and least developed countries, which in turn will have a positive impact on the material situation of the people in these countries and will significantly reduce poverty. in the upcoming negotiating round, the most developed countries should take a greater share of the responsibility for implementing solutions, adapting them to the capabilities and specificities of the poorer countries. trade liberalisation and increased market access for these countries will provide greater opportunities for south-south and developed-country exchanges, especially in the key area of agriculture. this access should be facilitated by the abolition of quantitative restrictions and customs duties. every effort should be made to ensure that the opening up of markets translates into real benefits for all people in their daily lives. it is important that the european union representatives seek to make substantial progress in the negotiations and to conclude the doha development round.
member of the commission.– madam president, as many members have expressed, we have a joint interest in deepening the cooperation between the european union and colombia, peru and ecuador. the agreement with peru and colombia is a good agreement, as has been said, and we are convinced that it will also be good for ecuador. of course there are special mechanisms for ecuador, bearing in mind the differences in the economy, but it will be good for them in enabling them to develop their economy and also in addressing the social issues. it will also be good for the regional integration of these countries with each other. we will, of course, monitor this very closely once it has entered into force, together with the eeas, looking at the situation of human rights, labour rights and sustainable development, as with all other issues. the second report for peru and colombia is being finalised. it will be sent to parliament very soon. on bananas: i have heard the concerns of some members expressed here. we have, as you know, a stabilisation mechanism. we are looking at this very closely. we will continue to observe this with a very attentive eye, keeping you informed. of course, ecuador will also have this safeguard mechanism; we will be amending it to make sure that ecuador is also covered by it, and we will continue to look at it and regularly report to parliament so that you can reassure your constituents. so thank you very much for your general support. i will be looking forward to a positive and strong support for the resolution tomorrow in parliament. we have read it very carefully and will, of course, study the possible amendments and so on, and i think it will be very helpful for us in concluding this work.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled a question on the new animal welfare policy for 2016-2020. the commission's communication 2012 ((0006) on a strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the years 2012 to 2015 has been welcomed by the european parliament and provides a clear roadmap for action in the area of union animal welfare policy in recent years. the european parliament was particularly pleased that the strategy introduced many aspects of parliament's resolution 2009/2202 own-initiative report of 5 may 2010. parliament welcomed the progress made so far and encouraged the commission to ensure that the backlog of actions was completed in time. so firstly, will the commission draw up a new animal protection and welfare strategy for 2016-2020 to ensure continuity and clarity of actions that are key to achieving further positive changes in animal welfare policy in the european union? secondly, will the commission prepare, as a key element of the new animal welfare policy, the proposal for simplification of the union legislative framework in the area of animal welfare, which parliament calls for in its resolution on the union strategy for the protection of animal welfare 2012-2015, resolution 2012/2043 and the own-initiative report. that is the question put to the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament, and now my reference to the problem. the subject which is the subject of the question is systematically raised in the committee on agriculture and rural development, in various forms and to varying extents, in the course of the work on many documents and on other occasions. animal welfare is an important part of our consciousness and values that are important to humans. it's also a sustainable development element. this issue has a special place in the european union, where we have done so much to improve animal welfare. the standards and requirements we have adopted are very high and we adhere to them, even though they cause a significant deterioration in the competitiveness of our animal products on the world markets. these issues are also addressed in the reports discussed earlier today. we should strive to make our standards in this area world standards, which is a very difficult task. and that is what we should be asking of products imported from third countries. we are currently dealing with key animal issues in a variety of areas, in many areas, in many reports. i'm just going to list the titles of the documents that we're working on or have been working on recently. these are zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products; cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine animals and of horses kept and bred for breeding purposes. next topic animal health, next veterinary medicinal products or community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, finally seal trade and many, many others that i will not mention here. the issues of the link and the impact of animal welfare on food quality and therefore on human health are of particular importance. a number of discussions have been held on the issue of hormones, antibiotics in animal nutrition and treatment, and the use of animals in scientific research, the results of which often ultimately contribute to improving animal welfare, despite previous doubts and reservations about the purpose and scope of their use. to sum up, i want to say that animal welfare is and will remain a core value for us.
madam president, during today’s voting of the agenda, one of our colleagues said that we have a problem with terrorists in europe and so it is not a good time to adopt a resolution about the animal welfare strategy. fighting against terrorism or animal protection: this is an absolutely false alternative. animal welfare is a european value; it is a part of european heritage. we can be proud of having one of the highest – maybe the highest – animal welfare standards in the world. the majority of european citizens want to continue the process of improving animal welfare standards. the majority of european citizens understand the significance of animal welfare and animal protection for our humanity in the 21st century. the lack of a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 is treated as a very bad signal that the european union does not want to continue the policy of the improvement of animal welfare standards. it is a very bad signal for public opinion. this is the reason that we call on the european union to continue animal welfare policy and to prepare the new animal welfare strategy. mahatma gandhi said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged on how its animals are treated. by adopting the new animal welfare strategy, we can give good evidence of our humanity and our moral progress in the european union.
madam president! the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the animal health certificate for the production of meat and poultry meat. the commission should therefore not only address the backlog in this area but also propose new, harmonised, updated and comprehensive legal standards in order to fully implement the requirements of article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the union. such union-wide legal standards in this field will ensure equal production opportunities for farmers in the union and thus contribute to improving the functioning of the internal market. in such a situation, the commission should also ensure, when negotiating bilateral trade agreements with third countries, that they comply with european animal welfare rules when exporting both livestock and animal products intended for trade in the european union. without such rules being respected by exporters from third countries, eu livestock production will unfortunately be increasingly at risk.
in writing. the commission communication on the eu animal welfare strategy 20122015 was a step in the right direction, as it was a roadmap with concrete actions for eu animal welfare policy. it is good that the commission has taken into account the observations of the european parliament in its resolution of may 2010. unfortunately, only 9 out of the 19 actions planned by the commission have been implemented so far. the commission must implement the missing elements of the 2012-2015 strategy as soon as possible. efforts should be continued in this regard. i expect the commission to present a new animal welfare proposal for 2016-2020. better implementation of eu law is also needed. i would like to stress that harmonization of legislation must not lead to lower standards. there is no justification for animal cruelty. i therefore expect the commission to prohibit the mistreatment of animals without exception throughout the european union. the provisions on the protection of live animals and during transport should be updated on the basis of parliament's resolution 2012/2031. the commission should also ensure that animal welfare standards are included in negotiated agreements with third countries and respected by non-eu exporters.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 november 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the report by paavo väyrynen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the role of the eu in the un how to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives (2015/2104 (ini)) (a8-0308/2015).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 november 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i am pleased that the need to step up action on sustainable cultural development and the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions by including education, tourism, cultural diplomacy, heritage protection, the creative sector and research in policy-making is underlined by the committee on culture and education in parliament's document on the role and cooperation of the european union with the un. as co-rapporteur on the committee on culture, i stressed above all that culture should be promoted for two reasons: as a tool for the european union's external relations through intercultural and interreligious dialogue, and as an autotelic value that should be promoted in itself. i also consider it important to develop statistics on culture and the cultural sector that will be used in the cultural policy debate and will allow a stronger emphasis on the economic potential of the cultural and creative sectors and their impact on society, as well as the symbolic importance of cultural heritage, which has become a tool for political goals, as the recent active destruction of cultural objects in syria and iraq have shown. it is therefore necessary to step up efforts, increase coordination and raise public awareness in order to protect cultural heritage.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! on january 13th, i spoke in this parliament and said that our enemies are not in moscow, but in mosques: not in moscow but in mosques. it was considered a terrible thing by mr juncker, by mr schulz. i would like to ask, do they not think that i was right and they were wrong? i would also like to ask why saying that our enemies are in moscow is not hate speech, but saying that our enemies are in mosques is hate speech? and i would like to ask you, finally, why did mr schulz speak today about the victims of terrorism, and somehow not mention the victims of terrorism, where 204 passengers on a russian plane were killed, and in paris, only 130 people were killed? he didn't mention that. and besides, i think the european union would have to be destroyed.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
mr. chairman, please! as a result of the activities of various climate maniacs who have unfortunately taken over the european union, we have energy that is three to four times more expensive than we could have had, and we shed crocodile tears over the poor who have no access to electricity. i haven't heard as much about social justice since joseph stalin as i've heard here. well, as my colleague konrad berkowicz says, poor people have a bigger problem than electricity. they don't have access to women. women don't want to be associated with poor men. i ask whether the european commission also wants to tackle this problem in the context of social justice. well, i'm afraid that's going to happen because in poland, there's this idea about the european union: think of the biggest stupidity and they'll do it. besides, i think the european union should be destroyed.
mr. president, mr. vice president, i'm not going to let you down. thank you for your report. it is good that the european commission will present this report every year, because the european parliament wants to have an influence on the management of this project. the first thing you mentioned is that reducing greenhouse gas emissions should be done in a technology neutral way, because our goal is to reduce emissions, not to eliminate this or that fuel. secondly, the idea of consumers is very much in line with the construction of the common energy market, but our energy companies should also have fair access to the market and should compete in a sustainable way. and the third thing is diversification of energy sources, geopolitics. one could say that one project - the nord stream extension - is a lens for the reasons why we need an energy union. i am concerned that the report does not contain the clear statement that we heard here a month ago from commissioner arias cañete. because it only says, "only projects that comply with the fundamental principles of the energy union will receive support". what are the fundamental principles? and is the nord stream expansion in line with them? a month ago, the commission had no doubt that it was not in agreement and that the project would never receive financial support or formal concessions from the european union. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i think in the long run, it's certainly possible, but we shouldn't do it too hard, too fast, because our goal is to eliminate emissions, not specific fuels. we've already made that mistake with first-generation biofuels. we have the wrong goals and the wrong ways to achieve those goals. we're now moving away from first-generation biofuels. so let's not make any rash decisions like that now. we're reducing emissions, not necessarily the specific fuel.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i have the impression that the best common energy policy for the european union is no common energy policy at all. let's look at the reality: recently, there was a report about the second nord stream pipeline. and here we are in a situation where we in parliament can talk and talk about the common energy policy of the european union, and then the big companies do their own thing, they don't care what we say here or what the commission says. so there are two realities - this is a kind of political schizophrenia, although i have the impression that these big corporations are protected by some governments of the member states, for example the german government. it just needs to be changed.
mr. chairman, please! the energy union is another climate policy that has the effect of reducing energy security, reducing the competitiveness of european industry, driving emissions out of the eu and thus increasing unemployment, and increasing energy poverty caused by high electricity prices. commissioner, you speak of energy solidarity. i would like to illustrate this alleged solidarity with poland: first, the energy union is committed to decarbonisation, the consequences of which will hit poland's coal-based economy hardest. secondly, in the interests of energy security and energy solidarity, did the commissioner not oppose nord stream 2? the absence of such objections will be proof that both energy security and energy solidarity are nothing but empty slogans and proof of hypocrisy for you. the priority should be ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. for my country, the energy union would be an important project. it is first and foremost energy security, security of supply, the common market - this should be an integration project. second, we have a climate policy. the energy union cannot be just an extension and complement of the energy union, there should be synergies between them, but an energy union that is 100% climate-driven does not add value. thirdly, the energy union must reflect the differences between countries, for example in terms of the energy mix, for example in terms of the presence of coal. it would be wrong for her to impose one model on everyone. instead, we should use the strengths of individual countries for the common good. let's cut the emissions, not the fuel! fourth, we are critical of nord stream. why would you do that? the overriding principle should be to not support projects which are likely to undermine the common market, including in the regulatory sphere, or which have a negative impact on non-participating countries, such as the baltic states or neighbouring countries such as ukraine. fifth, we need to diversify supply, infrastructure to eliminate energy islands. here i would like to show a model of cooperation, for example, between poland and the baltic states. energy policy should be about rebuilding industry, jobs, but it should also be consumer friendly.
mr. chairman, please! i'll try not to repeat too much of what's been said in the two hours of discussion in this room. the energy union differs from other unions that are being set up within the european union, such as the fiscal or banking union, in that its scope goes far beyond economic issues. it's not just the competitiveness of the economy, which is the price of energy, which also determines the competitiveness of the economy. it's not just about protecting the environment either. indeed, security is at stake, a major concern in our unstable times namely the continuity of energy supplies on a continent that is and will be dependent on external sources of energy. the very circumstances of the birth of this concept, whether the conflict in ukraine or the use of gas as a tool of political blackmail, testify to the importance of security. and this has its own internal dimension, a little-discussed so-called interconnectivity technical prerequisite for the solidarity of european countries. and the much more difficult external dimension the coordination of the 28 countries with external suppliers, mainly with one dominant supplier. but if that is the case, then the credibility of the european institutions will also be measured by reference to initiatives such as south stream, now nord stream. this is not just a question of diversification, but also of the credibility of the european institutions. good luck with that.
the procedure for allocating votes in the chamber is a matter for the individual chairman, which is not subject to any discussion, but even personal competence is subject to the rules. i would like to point out that in the votes in the chamber the president gave the vote to members of certain clubs twice, if not three times - i do not remember this - but at least twice, whereas our group, the third group in parliament, did not get a single vote. i'm noticing that.
in writing. the current energy management process in the eu is chaotic, dominated by the climate priority. this unilateralism is a serious blow to poland's energy security and threatens to cause energy poverty. the current energy policy, the excessive, ill-founded and scientifically unfounded so-called european climate policy, needs to be reassessed and separated from the real energy policy. it cannot be shaped by the powerful lobbying of some countries and big gas and financial corporations. a genuine energy union should lead to a change in the climate and energy package that would combat unfair competition between member states. the union's priorities should be energy security, solidarity of supply and the fight against energy poverty, the modernisation of infrastructure and transparency in the negotiation of energy prices from third countries, as well as the use of local energy sources, including coal. decarbonisation should be driven not only by increased use of renewable energy sources, but also by energy efficiency. the appropriate indicative inclusion of the actual efficiency gains in the future ets, as well as the share of res, should be rewarded by a proportionate reduction in the obligation to purchase co2 allowances.
in writing. the eu's security and the state of the environment depend to a large extent on the eu's energy strategy. that is why i am very pleased with the progress made in the energy union. this is a matter which the union rightly places as one of its priorities. we must remember that only a common policy can bring about rational and comprehensive solutions. a stable europe is a europe that is energy secure. i hope that the actions in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energy, climate policy, the emerging new energy market, energy security and the appropriate infrastructure will serve well to implement the policy. however, not all of this is likely to be achieved, including the ambitious target of 40% reduction by 2030, given the still high greenhouse gas emissions. remember, such regulations do not always have a positive effect. polish entrepreneurs are often forced to make large additional investments or bear the costs associated with different types of permits, which slows down the achievement of the intended effects of regulation. the eu must take account of the real impact of its actions on industry and services, depending on the country and the wealth of both specific strategic enterprises and smaller enterprises, so that the overall balance is more or less uniform across the union. the planned regulations must not hamper the functioning of the industry. only solidarity measures such as energy policy can strengthen the foundations of the community.
in writing.– i welcome the fact that the european commission plans to annually issue a communication on the state of the energy union. still, when it comes to decarbonisation of the economy, we have to connect it to the r&i pillar of the energy union. the main aim of the energy union should not be to eliminate any source of energy, especially as we should use indigenous sources, but to lower the co2 emissions. hence, the eu should invest in, e.g., clean coal technologies and not treat coal as a ‘purely harming’ energy source. moreover, i fear that the commission insufficiently touches upon the ‘elephant in the room’. knowing that the current nord stream capacity is not even fully used, is the extension of nord stream not something that the commission should strongly criticize – not diversifying the energy sources’ country of origin and further reliance on one, non—credible, supplier not serving to guarantee stabilization in the eu’s neighbourhood? the communication mentions that ‘the eu will only support infrastructure projects that are in line with the core principles of the energy union’. i hope that this relatively vague statement will not be further undermined by any actions concerning nord stream.
in writing. europe is characterised by a highly fragmented energy market and significant differences in the state and capacity of energy and transmission infrastructure. despite the investments made at union level and by the member states themselves, although the situation is improving, it is not sufficient to have a real impact on europe's energy security and to ensure access to energy at favourable prices for consumers and businesses. eu strategies often place a strong emphasis on reducing emissions, given their environmental impact and the climate change that is occurring. however, this objective of union policy should not be misinterpreted as aiming to eliminate fossil fuels from the member states' energy mix as soon as possible, as this is not possible in the short term. excessive pressure and further restrictions on energy-intensive eu industries can only lead to a decline in their competitiveness and the relocation of production outside the eu, causing not only capital outflows but also the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. the union should pursue its emission reduction targets in a manner that is based on technological progress, allows for better use of certain resources and takes account of alternatives in long-term european and national strategies. we cannot make hasty decisions here that could weaken europe, block the development of the internal energy market and jeopardise the status of transit countries such as poland or ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that so many positive developments have taken place in the negotiations on this report and the ecr group is ready to support the current shape of this project. the new insurance brokerage directive aims to effectively improve the regulation of the retail insurance market, to ensure undistorted competition and to protect consumers and integrate the market. i believe that the extension of the original directive and a number of practical facilitations will help to increase the level of protection of policyholders and bring about a convergence of legal systems across the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed in 2003 that action was needed to reduce the number of eu rules, simplify them and make them more transparent. in order to achieve these objectives, the commission is, inter alia, implementing a regulatory efficiency and performance programme (refit). the activities of the programme shall focus on analysing existing union legal acts and identifying those which have become outdated, either by their temporal nature or by their incorporation into other acts. in its draft regulation repealing certain acts relating to the area of freedom, security and justice, the commission identifies a number of such regulations: 11 decisions of the executive committee on the common visa policy (sch/com-ex) and one council regulation, which are no longer needed because they no longer serve any purpose. i fully support the refit programme and believe that the outdated decisions and the regulation should be repealed. i am glad that the form of the act voted on has finally been changed from 'decision' to 'regulation', as regulations produce direct effects in eu law and do not require further bureaucratic efforts to implement them. i remain hopeful that the commission will continue the refit programme and that redundant and obsolete acts will be removed from eu law.
in writing. ‒ the european union institutions should ensure that the law is drafted in the best possible way, including by ensuring that it is transparent. unfortunately, there is often a lack of coherence in legislation, which is the absence of derogation from acts whose continued application is superfluous after the introduction of new ones or the absence of repeal of acts which have exhausted their legal effects. in its assessment of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the commission identified a number of legal acts which should be repealed on the basis of those criteria. these included sch/com-ex (93) 14, sch/com-ex (97) decree 13 rev 2 and sch/com-ex (98) 52, the latter of which was incorporated into the new act, while the subject matter of the first two was fully regulated in the new legal acts. the draft ep regulation on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation, other than those referred to by me, envisaged the repeal of council decision 2008/173/jha, which had exhausted its legal effects in 2013, and of decision sch/com-ex (99) 11 rev. 2 adopting an agreement which had never entered into force and remained in the legal system essentially without binding force. i voted in favour of the draft regulation, believing that this would help to make eu law more transparent and to reduce the scope of unnecessary provisions.
in writing. ‒ mr claude moraes, member of the european parliament, tabled a draft legislative resolution on the draft regulation of the parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i think this resolution deserves our support. it rightly proposes to reduce the number of provisions of eu law by repealing obsolete acts. the analysis shows that 7 earlier but still valid legal acts have already been incorporated into the subsequent solutions. this shall in particular apply to the exchange of objects and documents to be used in criminal proceedings. in addition, the previous provisions concerning europol staff are being abolished, as they have been replaced by the eu regulation on europol.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters is another document that aims to eliminate redundant regulations and outdated legal acts from the european legal system. with the entry into force of the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between member states and the 2009 council decision establishing the european police office (europol), some of the abovementioned material has been exhaustively standardised, while the derogation from the previously applicable provisions has been forgotten. the adoption of the regulation will have a positive impact on streamlining and increasing the transparency of the current cross-border police and judicial cooperation procedures. in addition to eliminating dead and obsolete provisions, the commission has proposed the repeal of the council framework decision on the european evidence order, arguing that it has lost its usefulness as it is currently only applicable between two eu member states. i think it is reasonable to take such a pragmatic approach to the issue of removing from the legal system acts that no longer serve any purpose. as a supporter of reducing the number of provisions in eu law and simplifying them, i did not hesitate to support the draft regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european union is actively involved in all fisheries organisations whose aim is to ensure the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal fishing. one such organisation is the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) extended commission, in which the eu has had the status of a cooperating non-member entity since 2006. the ccsbt is responsible for the conservation and management of southern bluefin tuna throughout the area. the adoption of a resolution agreeing to the conclusion of the agreement will allow the eu to become a member of the ccsbt and to participate fully in its work. today, the eu as a cooperating entity is bound by, amongst others, the catch limits set by the ccsbt, on which the eu has no influence (the cooperating entities fully participate in the activities of the ccsbt but do not have voting rights). as vessels flying the flag of member states fish in the southern hake area, it is in the interest of the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt. in view of the above, i have supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the insurance mediation directive 2 (imd2). the proposed directive is a follow up to the former directive regarding the same matter called imd1. it is designed to ensure an equal playing field between everyone involved in the retail insurance market. the imd2 seeks to expand the scope of application of the former directive to all distribution channels. this is supposed to enhance the effectiveness of the insurance sector. furthermore, since the proposal covers the entire distribution chain, it is likely to benefit both consumers as well as retail insurance investors in the following ways: the most important change is the improvement in transparency. this means that insurance distributors will have to be more lucid about their prices, which will hopefully boost the level of competitiveness in this sector. also, the provisions of this directive seek to ensure the greater access to the information regarding all insurance products offered by the insurance dealers so that it will be unambiguous and clearer for the customers. all of the above is an interesting combination which will have a positive impact on each one of us as soon as it becomes real.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the sale of insurance services. the newly amended title of the directive includes, by negotiation, intermediaries and representatives in the distribution network. insurance products, including car and life insurance, are also covered. in line with the existing principle of flexibility for commercial practices, questions arise as to whether or not insurance sales should be preceded by advice and whether member states will use systems of mutual referrals. therefore, consumers and retail customers will receive information on the price and costs of the insurance of the product concerned and whether the insurance seller has financial backing and receives orders for the sale of the product concerned. the commission will also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the new rules on the market for insurance products. it won't affect your life insurance. the issue for me was also the requirements for vocational training. introducing 15 hours of training per year is a more balanced and adequate proposal. i therefore voted in favour of the text of the report.
in writing. ‒ according to eurostat, the number of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu is increasing year by year. this problem is directly linked to social inequalities, which are exacerbated by, inter alia, inadequate and financially irrational public policy strategies implemented in many member states. in nine of them, including poland, even children from families with high work intensity are at risk of poverty. more than 20% of eu citizens are under 18 years of age, which should be a particular incentive to work towards improving their current situation. first, tackling child poverty should become a top eu political priority, which should then translate into the policies of national governments. it is worth noting that the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of people living in poverty by at least 20 million by 2020, and that this objective could be achieved by using the structural funds, which have so far been seldom used for such purposes. however, it is essential that member states are fully involved in trying to address this problem, which i believe should be expressed primarily in the development of national policies to combat child poverty at central as well as local government level. i voted in favour of the resolution because i care about the youngest citizens of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on reducing inequalities, with a special focus on child poverty. in the context of this report, i would like to draw particular attention to access to free, high-quality education for all as a tool to tackle social inequalities. providing children and young people with equal educational opportunities reduces the risk of marginalisation and social exclusion and provides an opportunity to improve their quality of life, employment and socio-economic status. it is also necessary to monitor and prevent early school leaving among young people, which contributes to the risk of social exclusion and poverty and is a major barrier to economic growth and employment. while the rate of early school leavers is falling across the european union, there are still significant disparities between countries and regions. in some member states, we are even seeing a worrying increase in this rate. i call on member states to increase investment in education and childcare. increased financial expenditure and its effective distribution to the areas most affected by child poverty will ensure optimal conditions for their further development and prevent any social and economic consequences of poverty.
in writing. ‒ the existence of significant social inequalities is a very serious problem in almost every country, not just in europe but also worldwide. poverty, lack of access to basic education, healthcare and transportation infrastructure mean that these inequalities are passed on from generation to generation and often worsen. according to the un convention on the rights of the child, 'all children should have guaranteed rights to education, health care, housing, protection, participation in decision-making that affects them, rest and leisure, a balanced diet and family care'. these are essential elements for the proper development of future generations, and spending on improving the living conditions of the youngest, even though it may seem costly to some, is in fact the best investment in their future. increasing member states' efforts to combat poverty, with particular emphasis on improving the living conditions and development opportunities of children, seems to be a necessary and urgent issue. this is evidenced by available analyses showing that the level of at-risk-of-poverty or social exclusion in the eu-27 increased from 26,5% to 28% between 2008 and 2012, and a 2013 eurostat study estimates that there were 26,5 million children living in the eu-28 at risk of poverty and social exclusion at that time.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of people living in poverty by at least 20 million by 2020. the very ambitious nature of the challenge requires action at all levels - eu, national and regional - to combat it as effectively as possible. the european parliament report indicates that more attention needs to be paid to the use of the structural funds to combat the alarming and growing rates of child poverty in europe. the report also stresses the need for member states to provide free and universal education, health care and social security for the poorest. i believe that this document accentuates the problems and challenges we face in the right way, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the problem of child poverty is a multi-dimensional phenomenon and it is imperative that action be taken in accordance with the principle of the best interests of the child, which is fundamental to international law. the report makes recommendations to improve the financial situation of children and their healthcare, such as working towards more effective social support and universal healthcare. however, i do not believe that the report was prepared in a neutral worldview. i find it unacceptable that children's plight is used to promote the right to sexual and reproductive health. this formulation is unclear in the light of international law and in the face of strong tendencies to derive from it the right to freely and non-discriminatory decision about one's reproduction - and therefore also about when to terminate a pregnancy - cannot win my support. it surprises me that a report that is supposed to improve the situation of children reinforces the claims of those who want to avoid parenthood. in view of the above, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am aware that the marginalisation of certain social groups is a complex problem, often caused by factors other than discrimination. whatever the cause, this phenomenon cannot be underestimated. maintaining the status quo, i.e. leaving the issue of marginalised communities to local politics without additional financial support, is a short-term solution that only exacerbates the problem. it should be noted that, according to criminological studies, factors such as housing exclusion, education, unemployment and poverty create favourable conditions for demoralization and pathological behaviour, and often result in high crime rates among those exposed to these factors. attempting to help and, above all, educate people from marginalised communities will bring mutual benefits, both for these people and for society as a whole. i am aware that people from groups affected by the problem of marginalisation are often reluctant to give in to attempts to activate them in the labour market and to change their habits of living on welfare. but this should not be an excuse for not trying to help such individuals function normally in society. a particularly important point for me in the resolution is the call for linking national poverty reduction strategies with cohesion policy, which should result in a common strategy at eu level to reduce poverty, unemployment, exclusion of young people, children and disabled people, not only among marginalised groups but within society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the most important and costly policy currently pursued by the european union. its task is to bridge the gap between the most and least developed regions of europe. i would remind you that poland is currently the largest net beneficiary of the cohesion fund among all eu countries. the aim of cohesion policy is the integrated development of the regions, not only economically but also socially. this applies in particular to 'marginalized communities', such as roma minorities, but paradoxically there is currently no clear definition of such communities in european legislation. however, discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, culture, religion and disability still occurs in the eu. however, this is the area in which cohesion policy can work to contribute to the elimination of all forms of persecution through an integrated approach in the economic and social spheres. the key to success is integration, which must come from both the minorities and the member states' authorities. partnership and mutual understanding are needed.
in writing. ‒ the report is intended to provide a basis for discussion on the future programming period for improving the living conditions of marginalised communities. in the end, however, the inclusion of marginalised communities will depend on strong political will on the part of local and territorial authorities and national authorities. the report points out that cohesion policy must address the key challenge of poverty and exclusion of young people and children, adults and people with disabilities. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion, reduce social inequalities, including reducing and eliminating poverty and exclusion. the existing eu funds, both the european social fund and the european regional development fund, are very important tools for the wider inclusion of marginalised communities. in its document, parliament not only highlighted issues that have been widely discussed, but also pointed to issues that have rarely been discussed, such as the marginalization of roma and other ethnic and national minorities living in the european union. furthermore, i also agree with the call for a coherent and common definition of marginalised communities that has been made in this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the role of the european union in the un. the committee on culture and education has prepared an opinion on this report. as a member of this commission, i have highlighted in my amendments the importance of education as an instrument for achieving the eu's foreign policy objectives, such as peace and stability in the world, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and the fight against poverty both in the eu and worldwide. in this context, it is crucial to increase cooperation between the eu and the un to promote education for all, improve access to education, improve its quality and strengthen education systems worldwide. following up on the report, cooperation between the eu and the un should also be ensured in the field of education in the context of rescue programmes in the event of humanitarian crises, armed conflicts or natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the future of the european union is linked to global peace, security, development and human rights, which are guaranteed by the united nations. for several years now, the union has been able to articulate its needs and concerns, and to submit proposals and amendments to the un general assembly, not only through its member states but also on its own. however, this law requires eu countries, especially those in the security council, to coordinate their positions within the un. this is particularly important now, when the conflict in ukraine, syria and the growing terrorist organisation isis pose serious threats to the security of our continent and the entire globe. it is also important that the eu and its institutions make a clear and strong call for global solutions to global problems, as no country can cope with emerging threats on its own in today's world. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's document on the eu's role in the united nations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the role of the european union within the united nations in regard to how to better achieve eu foreign policy goals. due to the fact that the future of the eu is highly dependent on human rights development, security and global peace, i think it is important to strengthen the eu role within the un. the un is indeed a forum in which we can promote our biggest interests and values. the report lists several ways on how to contribute to the un work system so that it can have a positive impact on our society. the first interesting idea that brought my attention is to reform the security council. the reason for it is that such a reform will contribute to the better reflection of the new world reality and will cause the sc to be more effective in overcoming future challenges. moreover, provisions of the report focus on enhancing both eu coordination and cooperation in fields such as humanitarian aid and development. all of the above will hopefully strengthen our position in un and therefore globally.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, we do need changes in the way tax systems, tax policies and tax practices work in the european union. what we have right now does not fit the european reality of the 21st century and the principle of fairness. we all share the view that reform of tax systems is about making them fair, which entails ensuring that taxes are paid where value is created, and this is a common-sense principle. we also need to end the de facto double standards between smes and multinationals, which can use sophisticated strategies to escape taxes. a wide range of recommendations are made in this report, but let me use my one minute to insist on one point – the call for an improvement in the mechanism to solve tax disputes. this system is very weak in europe and we need a good quality arbitration system, both globally, and this is a task for the oecd, and within the european union. let me conclude by saying that the unacceptable shortcomings we found should not conceal the fact that most companies are honest taxpayers, creating growth and jobs and serving our economies, and we need to be mindful of that and act in a proportionate way. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i could respond, but that is a question for the coordinator of our group. i am sure, though, that both mr juncker and mr dijsselbloem and all other political leaders have already participated in all the meetings that we requested, so i hope that, if there is such a need, then this will be discussed in the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect and decided jointly. we do not believe we have a monopoly on these things, so we will be very happy to discuss and decide together with you on those issues.
madam president! the scandal in this case is not just the corporate practices revealed by investigative journalists. and it should be emphasized that it was not revealed by the european institutions, not by the european parliament, not by olaf, but by investigative journalists. but it is also scandalous that this kind of practice took place in luxembourg when the prime minister of that country was jean-claude juncker, a great european with convictions, the current president of the european commission, who does not spare us here in this house many speeches on european solidarity. we must ask ourselves as members of parliament whether he is really the right man in the right place in the commission, which is supposed to be the guardian of european laws and treaties. but the reason for these corporate practices, these dishonest practices, was and is the impotence of states against big corporations and consulting firms, not vice versa. unfortunately, one of the main demands of the report is to open the way to tax harmonisation in the union, and thus further limit the sovereignty of the member states and their ability to conduct economic policy. i don't think that's the way to go.
mr. chairman, please! as a result of the conciliation talks between the council and parliament, the 2016 budget was finally set at eur 155 billion for commitments and eur 144 billion for payments. this is a slightly higher level of expenditure than the commission and the council wanted, but it is clearly lower than what parliament proposed in its budgetary amendments of 28 october. so, in the end, the 2016 budget commitments are over 4% lower and payments are only 2% higher than in the 2015 budget, which means that the reduction in arrears will not be as promised. it is also uncertain whether priorities such as youth employment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and programmes such as 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' will have sufficient funding. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my hope that the funding of the so-called immigration crisis and the fight against terrorism in 2016 will not be at the expense of the cohesion policy funds obtained as a result of the next annual review of the financial framework for 2014-2020.
commissioner, minister, i have to go. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank you for your efforts with this budget for 2016. we all know that this was not the case every year and that this was not the approach to the annual budget. but i would like to draw attention to one very characteristic element. both during the negotiations on the 2016 budget and in every other debate today, all the representatives of the european institutions - the parliament, the council and the commission - are referring to the budget revision, that is, they are saying in a way that we will do it at the review, exactly at the review, we will do it at the review. it would indicate that there's some miracle cure that's going to come along, and then we'll be able to take care of all the things that are unfinished for today. i wanted to point out that in the 2016 budget we have exhausted all the possibilities for flexibility and that in fact our conversation will be about very difficult actions and it will not be possible to deal with all the issues on the occasion of the revision of the mff. but the 2016 budget is optimistic that we'll be able to do this in a constructive way.
madam president! how nice to join in the congratulations that we have heard in this room, which all parties to the conciliation deserve. reconciliation deserves the word reconciliation. it was a far cry from the ten conciliations in your climate that i remember from my budget biography. but if so, i'd like to follow jan olbricht's footsteps into the future. in particular, many of the political announcements, backed up by budget money, fell at the beginning of this financial perspective. juncker, youth employment initiative bottomless barrel in response to the migration crisis. this is called front loading, and it has implications for the budget in the future. the big challenge is becoming a review or revision. the difference in vocabulary alone can be disturbing. the review or revision of this perspective will determine whether we will survive the budgetary drama i remember from 2012 to 2014, which was associated with the maturation of multiannual programmes and at the same time a severe lack of funds to finance them. so, for the record, without spoiling this holiday, what a great budget 2016 reconciliation.
the question asked by raising the blue card. the measure of responsibility is concern for the safety of citizens and the european parliament would do very well to agree on the protection of our external borders and the implementation of initiatives such as the pnr directive. i'm very surprised that you're opposing these initiatives and i want to ask you: in the name of what reasons are socialists opposed to this? is that your personal opinion or the opinion of the whole political group? i'm very surprised by this.
madam president! i think we can all agree that the european union today is facing sophisticated campaigns of disinformation, of radicalization, which are spreading on the internet, but also in schools and prisons. the cross-border nature of terrorism and the constant development of technology allow fanatics from all over the world to communicate with each other and recruit in their structures in a flash. it is therefore good that the european commission is proposing to improve existing methods and to develop new community tools to counter radicalisation and terrorism. but to effectively counter radicalism, we also need to effectively counter the hate speech that is flooding the internet. and in this case, we also need to find legal boundaries that define what is and is not hate speech, and what measures to take to counter it. i am therefore pleased that the commission wants to increase cooperation with the online sector and to remove terrorist and extremist content from their platforms. and the police should take strict legal action against those who promote violent extremism. member states should, in turn, cooperate better in areas such as the exchange of information and intelligence, which will allow the effective application of the new measures proposed by the commission.
(introduction incomprehensible for technical reasons). ...in cultural matters, in matters of our civilization and courage in action for security. our civilization, based on christian culture, is under attack, and it's not under attack by abstract force, but by radical islam. we need to be clear about this and not discriminate against anyone. civilizations fall when they stop believing in their own values. you will note that in central europe, where the model of social life is based on christian culture, there is no basis for terrorism. and finally, the second point: we need the courage to act for safety. i appeal to the socialists to change their position. we need border controls, we need a directive on pnr, but also extraordinary measures, including the expulsion of our own citizens who are responsible for terrorist acts, because citizenship is not a right to destroy society.
mr. chairman, please! man is a free being and we are not able to change the mind of another. unfortunately, man can choose evil. we are able to limit this phenomenon, and that is why any form of glorification of isis, glorification of terrorism, justification should be met with a strong legal response. if the imams who preach the ideology of isis are foreigners, they should be expelled immediately, and if not, we should ask ourselves: should people who preach hatred towards the society in which they live be treated as its citizens? that's a serious question we need to answer. we can change the future of our children, but we will not change it by demanding censorship, as congresswoman albiol guzmán said, of people who criticize the consequences of migration. or by criticizing politicians who have the courage to defend us, like prime minister orban, for example.
madam president! radicalism, terrorism, these are not entirely new phenomena. we've seen this in history. now, however, it is being done on an unprecedented scale, using, of course, modern technology. our fundamental values are at stake, which is tolerance, and also freedom of movement, and finally technological advances. let's remember that the terrorists who are carrying out these attacks are mostly european union citizens living here. the people who shot at paris didn't ask who was muslim, who was christian. they just shot at anyone who was in their range. preventive action is crucial: not tolerating calls for radicalisation, controlling the network, raising public awareness and willingness to cooperate with the police. the key issues: eliminate or limit the funding of radicalism. there's a problem here. in conclusion, we simply need more union, more community methods.
in writing. preventing radicalisation is one of the key challenges facing europe today. social inequalities, the marginalisation of certain social groups, social exclusion and lack of access to quality education and training are contributing to the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. young people are particularly vulnerable to extremist rhetoric, with a need to define their own identity and belonging, and it is therefore very important to focus on supporting young people in building their sense of worth and community and a greater understanding of a multicultural and multinational society. we need to help young people, through education and in collaboration with their families and teachers, develop critical thinking skills, to distinguish fact from propaganda, to understand the methods of terrorist organizations. more emphasis should also be placed on lifelong learning programmes and non-formal and informal learning, which can help both to prevent radicalisation and to deradicalize attitudes. it is necessary to implement programmes to prevent and combat radicalisation for parents whose children may be vulnerable to recruitment and for professional groups such as, but not limited to, teachers, educators, police and prison officers who have direct contact with persons at risk of radicalisation.
mr president, we need to maintain effective anti-dumping tools to be able to react to known challenges, like those currently faced by the steel sector and others. the challenges of trading with countries that are not members of the market economy global community, like china or belarus, demonstrate that the eu must be able to react adequately but also effectively. we should not deal with the problems in the sector only by going from crisis to crisis. we should apply a more systematic approach. horizontal sectoral industrial policy should be permanently included in the commission’s annual work programme. despite the cutting of all possible costs, the steel sector’s competitiveness is weakened by high energy prices, uncertainties connected with the emissions trading system (ets) and the growing massive steel imports from belarus – and we know what happens there, how those prices are nationally regulated and how the sector is subsidised. we have to take full advantage of our trade defence instruments (tdi) legislation that allows us to impose protective measures that can counteract these threats. we have to remember that, by allowing imports from belarus, we are creating a very difficult situation for our own sector. this is a threat that can lead to the reduction, or even the liquidation, of production in our member states. i doubt that this is something that we want to see in the future. so the commission should take advantage of all available solutions to protect eu industry.
i'm going to congratulate mr. martin! his report is as timely as it gets. i'm not going to let you down. it is the excess cost of co2 emissions, including the technological carbon dioxide produced by reducing iron in large furnaces, that really threatens to give a competitive shock and to move the steel industry out of europe. the result will be further deindustrialisation of europe, loss of experience and expertise and neglect of advanced scientific research, whereas steel semi-finished products, anti-corrosion coated thin sheets, thick sheets, wires and rods are the basic material of all material production - that is, car production, washing machines, refrigerators, etc. the rapporteur's proposal to react to dumped steel prices at the union's borders is also worth considering, as the current methods are not sufficient. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state. the contamination of steel, especially copper, increases with each smelting cycle. high-quality steel products require a full production cycle carried out in a single process and, moreover, so-called process heat is saved, which cannot be done when importing raw steel inserts. europe cannot depend on imported steel for the high quality of its competitive industrial production. it would be an unforgivable mistake.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! health and safety at work is of vital importance not only for workers themselves but also for the eu market as a whole and for the competitiveness of european companies. in this context, it is worrying that some member states have still not ratified ilo convention no 187 or are delaying the implementation of eu legislation in this area. to address these other problems, the european commission has developed a strategic framework for occupational safety and health for 2014-2020. unfortunately, i fear that this strategy may not bring about a significant improvement in health in terms of work-related accidents and diseases, which - i would like to remind you - cause the death of nearly 20 000 europeans a year. if we are to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and promote active ageing, real and effective action is needed. without these measures, we cannot expect people over 60 to continue to function effectively in the labour market. certain initiatives at union level are needed to avoid a situation where less protection of workers' health becomes an incentive for companies to remain competitive in some member states. occupational safety and health at the workplace is also a major challenge in the context of flexible forms of employment, as so-called atypical forms of employment allow businesses to respond efficiently to changing economic conditions and are an essential part of the modern economy. however, in this situation, employers are obliged to provide adequate security for employees in terms of... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. the situation where women cannot earn a decent pension unless they sacrifice their private lives is extremely unfair. so i'm very happy, thank you for talking to me today about the retirement trap. i also thank you for all the declarations and initiatives you have already taken and those you are planning to take. because the pension gap is a cumulative measure of the inequality that women experience in relation to their working lives, in relation to their participation in the labour market. and as such, it is a very good aggregate indicator of inequality for assessing the effectiveness of equality policies and can, in my view, also be used in the european semester. the best way to treat a pension gap is to look at the cause, not the symptoms. and these reasons are women's participation in the labour market, because after all, retirement is the result of work experience and earnings, so i would not look for the reasons in pension systems, but i would focus absolutely on women's participation in the labour market. and if we want higher pensions for women, we need to enable women to work out such pensions, and i'm not just talking about the role-balancing, the work-life balance, but also about the educational pathways, so that they don't lead to sectoral segregation later on in the labour market, and also to the pathways of advancement. and i am very pleased to announce the creation of a strategy, a strategy to study the pension gap in general, because this is a problem of all member states, and therefore it should also be addressed at the level of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we have been fighting for many years in europe against the existing inequalities between women and men. but we still have a dramatic disparity in the amount of retirement benefits that we receive. just think, the pay gap is over 16 percent, and the pension gap is close to 40 percent. if we can talk about a problem in the area of salaries, we are facing a crisis in the area of pensions. for years, it has been emphasized that the root cause of this condition is inequality in the labor market. while we have achieved the europe 2020 target for men's employment, we have made little progress for women, with only 63% of them in employment and yet many of them working part-time or in worse conditions. of the total number of women, about a quarter have never worked in the formal labour market and therefore have difficulty in acquiring pension rights. they are the ones we should be concerned about first, for they often find themselves in a very difficult situation, especially in the case of divorce.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. here i am, mr. chairman kamall, the last of the line. i listened with great interest and admiration to your very beautiful speech and i have a question for you. are you aware that there are people in the political group of which you are the chairman here in the european parliament who are spreading anti-islamism, who are saying terrible things about muslims, and are you prepared to make sure that such things do not happen in your political group?
the question asked by raising the blue card. you mentioned saudi arabia. i wanted to ask you, do you think that in saudi arabia, these inhuman practices are the work of extremists? do these inhuman practices have widespread social support? but let's leave this one undemocratic country. pakistan is a democratic country. do you think asia bibi has been on death row for the last six years because extremists want her to be on death row? can honest liberal politicians not change anything because these inhuman practices have mass social support? please answer this question.
blue-card question.– mr nuttall, do you agree with me that in the past, appeasing stalin brought enormous atrocities to other regions, like my region (central and eastern europe), that and currently appeasing putin brings atrocities to countries like ukraine and other countries of central and eastern europe as well?
the weak political structures of the arab world are being replaced by radical islamism, which is responsible for acts of terror in iraq, syria, israel, lebanon, libya, mali, tunisia, and more recently, on several occasions, in the european union, in france - including recently in paris - and in copenhagen. i offer my condolences to the families of all the victims and their loved ones, regardless of their nationality or religion. i believe that this situation requires our great mobilization and solidarity, the closest cooperation of the capitals, the activation of community possibilities. but i question the constructive role of states like russia because of their aggressive engagement with their neighbors and their own people. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i question the role of russia, because there is a record of inspiring terrorist activity by the current regime of russia towards members of its own society, as well as in the neighbourhood. for example, there are the so-called ‘green men’ in ukraine.
mr president, last year there were 17 000 terrorist attacks all over the world. anybody can be a victim of extreme islamic terrorism, and terrorism has to be the public enemy for all of us. four areas are key: real coordination between member states and intelligence services; preventive data collection, analysis and automatic exchange; destroying e-communication among terrorists; and cutting out the sources of finance for terrorism. we should not sacrifice privacy and freedom on the altar of security, but neither should we sacrifice security on the altar of privacy – for that simply means sacrificing people on the altar of terrorism because of our inability to act. we need concrete solutions: among them, pnr for intra-eu flights; a legal basis for the internet referral unit for fighting internet mobilisation of terrorists; cooperation with social media on the removal of illicit content; resources for a counterterrorism centre in europol; a data protection package with clear roles for law enforcement in providing security; and smart borders.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in paris have left the french capital in mourning, and have also triggered a wave of grief in europe. to fully understand the mechanisms that lead to such tragic events, we need to consider what the bombers really want to achieve by sowing death and terror. the objectives of the so-called islamic state extremists in europe are different from those in the middle east. there, by spreading anarchy and chaos, they seek to expand their power in the terrorized territories. in europe, the goal cannot be to increase its influence, because isis will never take power here. so you might suspect that islamic extremists are after something else. for example, to create a wave of hatred in europe against muslims and other minorities, in order to create a wave of violence. riots, property destruction, and eventually racially motivated murder could in turn provoke muslim counterattacks against the indigenous people and lead to a kind of religious war, a war of civilizations. perhaps the destruction of europe by europeans is the dream scenario of islamic fundamentalists. that is why it is so important that even in the face of bloody terrorist attacks, such as the recent ones in paris, we do not allow acts of revenge and retaliation against innocent people. this is a major challenge facing the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ the immigration crisis has long since ceased to be an internal problem of individual member states and has become a european union-wide problem. the migration and refugee crisis requires a significant financial burden that no one could have foreseen when the financial framework for 2014-2020 was established. the ceilings for heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (global dimension of europe) of the budget for 2016 will certainly not allow adequate funding for the urgent needs arising from the crisis situation. it is estimated that, following the reallocation of appropriations under these ceilings, the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016 needs to be supplemented by appropriations above the expenditure ceiling, by eur 1 506 million in heading 3 and eur 24 million in heading 4, respectively. parliament's decision will allow annual amounts under the flexibility instrument not used in previous years to be used for this purpose. i voted in favour of the decision, considering it a valid initiative.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee situation is one of the most serious challenges facing the european union today. within a few months, european migration policy had become completely out of touch with the existing realities. the european commission's proposal to mobilise a flexibility instrument outside the multiannual financial framework to finance measures to manage the migration and refugee crisis therefore seems to be the most appropriate. the eu budget should become a more flexible tool to respond to emerging needs and challenges. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of this instrument and the transfer of additional resources for crisis management.
in writing. ‒ the joint draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016 has been approved by the conciliation committee. it is a good compromise and achieved without the 'dramatic' scenes and threats of rejection that have taken place in recent years. the overall level of commitment appropriations for 2016 is set at eur 155 billion. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. under the flexibility instrument, eur 1.5 billion will be allocated to the security and citizenship strand and eur 24 million to commitments under the global dimension of europe strand. i am pleased that the issue of reducing youth unemployment remains a common political priority. it is important to make the best use of budgetary resources, in particular the youth employment initiative. in addition, the phasing out of the backlog of unresolved payment applications under the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes is an important point. efforts should be made to improve the monitoring of any outstanding accounts, in particular through the establishment of an early warning system. from 2016, the budgetary implementation status will be actively monitored and the budgetary measures will allow to reduce the level of accumulated end-of-year arrears to around eur 2 billion. i am pleased that the european parliament, the council and the commission will continue to summarise the state of play of payments and forecasts at special regular interinstitutional meetings.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing a number of challenges in a number of areas, such as the migration crisis, the current european security and counter-terrorism problem, and the ongoing russian embargo and crisis in the milk market following the abolition of quotas. in the face of numerous and highly diverse challenges, it is necessary to ensure that, in this period of uncertainty and insecurity, the union budget is sufficiently flexible and focused on clear priorities, designed to deliver concrete results. we should realize that few problems that arise suddenly will be solved so quickly. many of these require time and a series of specific actions over a number of years. for example, it is hard to expect that the migration challenge will be solved anytime soon. this problem will enter phases that are currently difficult to define and predict, when even their extent is difficult to estimate precisely. in the current situation, the focus should be on ensuring the security and adequate protection of the eu's external borders through joint action, information exchange and a coherent action plan of services in the member states. it is also necessary to have emergency funds available in the context of unforeseen expenditure.
in writing. ‒ despite the growing difficulties in financing the migration crisis, the european parliament and the eu council, representing the member states, unanimously agreed to increase the budget for 2016. the decision was therefore taken to allocate eur 4 billion to respond effectively to the increasing number of migrants coming to europe. however, the budget for the coming year also includes room for other priorities, in particular those relating to promoting growth and creating jobs. moreover, the ep's intervention will also provide more money for research and development, thus responding to the challenges facing the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the negotiations on the eu budget for 2016 have gone so smoothly this year and that a compromise has been reached. it also welcomes the increased funding for the erasmus+ programme as one of the priorities in the budget. this is an important signal that the eu is finding means to support youth exchanges with the eu and neighbouring countries. we have applied for funding for pilot projects and preparatory actions under title 3 and these have also been secured, albeit not fully. we are also gradually improving the ratio between current payments and already due commitments, making up for the backlog of previous years. this is very important. in the future, we should aim to increase the stability of proven projects, improve the duration of guaranteed funding perspectives and improve the funding of those projects that provide knowledge of the state of culture in europe and its funding mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur calls on the commission to submit a new draft implementing decision which would reject all applications for authorisation to prepare soft pvc recycled preparations containing dehp. i think that objection would be disproportionate. it would also cover materials safe for recycling. furthermore, the question of form, i.e. whether parliament has any competence to object to implementing acts, is questionable. i believe that a threshold should be set up up to which the use of dehp can be considered safe and that strict rules should be established for monitoring the use of this phthalate. such a procedure would be in line with the recommendations of the opinion of the european chemicals agency (echa). there is also a need to discuss the use of dehp for industrial recycling, as the cost of producing new pvc is 28 times higher than the cost of producing recycled pvc. i therefore voted against the resolution not to grant authorisation without exception for dehp.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted today (24.11.2015) aimed to describe tax controls in eu member states and to make recommendations on this issue. this was the result of six months of intensive work by the taxe committee, including expert hearings and delegations to many member states, to explain how to interpret and apply national tax legislation. given that tax fraud and tax avoidance cause losses to the eu budget of around €1 trillion each year, the specific issues of corporate tax base erosion and aggressive tax planning practices have been examined in detail at international level. the globalisation and digitalisation of the economy have completely changed the way markets work. the majority of large companies today are cross-border in nature, requiring international tax rules, and corporate tax models were developed in the first half of the 20th century when such activities were limited in scope. the mismatch between national laws and legal loopholes facilitate tax evasion. in conclusion, both a tightening of national measures to combat tax fraud in the member states and a coherent eu position on the phenomenon are necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the interpretation of tax law and other measures of a similar nature or effect because i am not in favour of introducing a common consolidated tax base. i particularly disagree with paragraph 170, which undermines the principle of unanimity in the council, because i believe that each member state should have a veto on tax policy. i regret that the european parliament has adopted a report which falls within the competence of the member states, in the direction of harmonizing tax law in the european union. uniform rules in this area are unnecessary and harmful to the competitiveness of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the recent tragedy in paris and other terrorist attacks in europe this year have shown that european citizens are often the perpetrators of attacks. it is estimated that over 5,000 of them have joined terrorist organizations such as isis and jabhat al-nusra. given the potential danger posed by individuals from extremist backgrounds, the european union should take decisive action as a matter of urgency to prevent further radicalisation of its citizens and persons temporarily staying within its borders. as you can see, the current repressive measures are not enough. the european parliament resolution on preventing radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations proposes that preventive measures be used more widely. the need to improve the system of monitoring and information exchange on persons arriving from outside the eu and moving between member states and to analyse websites for the dissemination of content in support of terrorism was highlighted. the need for wider education of people at risk of radicalisation and dialogue between leaders of different communities is also an important point. recognising the complexity of the problem, the need for coordination at all levels, from local to international, was also emphasised. i believe that the adoption of the resolution will contribute to improving security in the european union and prevent the tendency for extremist attitudes to become more popular.
in writing. ‒ for years, the european union countries have been blind to the fact of the increased activity of islamic radicals. policy makers paralyzed by fear of political correctness didn't even have the courage to properly name the threat. this is evident in the debate and the report voted on today. like fire, he avoids the names islam and muslim. yet they are the backbone of most of the terrorist groups threatening europe today. if we can't get together to identify the threat and name it, how are we supposed to fight it? europe is itself weaving the rope on which it will hang in a few years' time. it opens up borders wide, but it can't control who comes into europe. the paris bombers were among the immigrants. they could easily cross the road from greece to the french capital. how many times have they received help and free rides from the authorities of successive european countries? they bought guns in paris. if the french people had more legal weapons, they could fight off the attack. today, instead of giving europeans guns to defend themselves, they are discussing how to limit their access to them. this bloody example shows that the most effective defense is to close the eu's external borders to migrants and at the same time to strengthen the monitoring of muslim communities in europe by increasing the number of weapons they possess. it is time for the european commission to take off its political correctness glasses and see the problem.
in writing. ‒ terrorism and radicalisation are both transnational and internal problems no eu country is immune from a threat that no longer comes from outside but from radicalised groups within the union itself. the fight against these phenomena can therefore only be effectively tackled through a common eu strategy, which must be based on prevention. if the union is to uphold the values that underpin integration such as the free movement of persons it must develop a strategy for responding early to radicalisation and hate speech and develop a policy for the promotion of tolerance and social inclusion. i agree with the author of the report on preventing radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, who says that the internet has become a virtual training camp for radicals and a space for recruiting and radicalising potential followers. developing controls, with full respect for freedom of expression and the right to privacy, on hate speech content in cooperation with online companies is one element of the strategy. however, a systemic approach of early prevention by promoting tolerance for diversity through formal education, training and social campaigns across the union is needed above all. equally important is the pursuit of social justice policies to promote social inclusion and cohesion, which prevent exclusion from fostering radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ the recent tragic events in paris and the increased police and military action in the streets of brussels should make us all aware of the importance and the danger of the growing problem of terrorism. a phenomenon that can only be fought by acting together. one of the european union's core values and ideas is now very desirable common security. i am very pleased that this has been achieved, and that it has led to the drafting of a resolution on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of citizens by terrorist organisations. in voting for the resolution, i fully support its message and the concrete solutions it contains, which are a response to the phenomenon of acceptance by people of opinions, views and ideas that promote intolerance and often lead to extremism. it is estimated that some 5000 european citizens have left to fight for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria. therefore, our actions cannot be purely repressive. i want to express my approval for a strategy based more on prevention. preventive measures such as education, countering violent extremism and terrorist radicalisation in prisons and online, better information sharing on the subject, and strengthening links between the eu's internal and external security will be helpful tools in the common fight against terrorism. i am glad that parliament has once again taken a stand for the safety of millions of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's adoption of a resolution on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations by such an outstanding majority is a testament to parliament's unity in the fight against barbarism in our region and beyond. however, the measures proposed in the ep report must be implemented as soon as possible to be effective. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling for the eu to take action to combat the spread of terrorism and to strengthen its capacity to combat terrorism. now both the member states and the other eu institutions must implement the recommendations written by the ep, otherwise we may find ourselves completely defenseless in the face of the growing danger.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks that have affected europe and the significant increase in the number of eu citizens with radical views, a project has been prepared to present the best ways to deal with this problem. one of the issues is the elimination of foreign fighters' travel within the eu. the recommendations address the issue of segregation in prisons, as well as the introduction of educational and community initiatives. international cooperation within the eu in the fight against terrorism, the exchange of practices that will help to counter radicalisation of opinion at a global level, is also important. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's external borders policy, including on the implementation of the eu's external borders policy. it is worth mentioning here the mission of the internet companies. together with the uniformed services, they are tasked with detecting any online activity that is strongly linked to radicalisation. i voted in favour of the report because of the compromise amendments which have been made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr christensen because i believe that a good compromise has been reached in the negotiations and that we will ultimately be voting on a text that addresses many of the key challenges facing employers in the field of osh. i am particularly pleased that the report has made room for two points. first, attention was drawn to the growing phenomenon of new and precarious forms of employment and their negative impact on the occupational safety and health situation, including the mental health of workers. secondly, i welcomed the fact that the report focused on the effectiveness of osh management in micro and small enterprises. it is clear that the level of protection of their employees must be as high as in larger establishments. however, we must realise that compliance with standards and requirements is more difficult for micro and small employers. i therefore believe that micro and small enterprises should be given special attention in this respect, and above all that the law on osh, both european and national, should be clear, transparent and easy to implement.
in writing. ‒ good working conditions that protect physical and mental health are a fundamental right of workers. it is common knowledge that the costs of prevention are much lower than the costs of treating occupational diseases, and therefore both undertakings and member states should take all measures to reduce the risk of occupational diseases. the european parliament's report rightly emphasised the need for the european commission, member states and businesses to work together to develop an eu osh strategy. in addition, it is important that the needs and compliance difficulties of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are given special attention when developing the union framework for occupational safety and health, so that the legal framework does not become a significant obstacle to their development.
in writing. all forms of violence against women are undeniably evil and must be fought and prevented. this is a matter that we all share. what separates us is the choice of instruments. each member state has laws prohibiting violence and providing for penalties for the use of violence. i believe that new instruments such as the istanbul convention or the proposed eu directive on combating violence against women will do nothing to actually tackle the phenomenon of violence. instead, they're used to fight ideology against the traditional family, against the values that our civilization is based on, and to promote gender ideology. if violence against women is still a problem in our societies today, it is because no law can ever completely eliminate crime. but we can take action to reduce the scale of this phenomenon, which often increases in pathological environments characterized by unemployment, alcoholism and other social problems. by improving the living conditions of these communities, we can reduce the scale of violence, including against women. this is the best way we can help women.
in writing. despite the clear progress made in the area of gender equality, gender-based violence, the most radical form of discrimination, is a daily reality for millions of women in europe and around the world. violence against women is universal and affects all member states, and the european union as a whole should therefore develop a common strategy to combat it. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women, recognised as the gold standard of anti-violence policy, is one of the most effective legal tools in the fight against gender-based violence. the convention makes it clear that nothing, including religious or cultural elements, can justify violence, and prevention is rightly based on linking anti-violence policies with gender equality policies. the istanbul convention also guarantees the introduction of concrete, effective measures to combat violence, such as a 24-hour hotline and shelters for victims of violence or interrogation procedures to prevent secondary victimisation. the popularity of the convention is shown by the fact that 25 eu countries have already signed it, 12 of which have ratified it. in order to support and accelerate these processes, every effort should be made to ensure that the eu becomes a party to the convention. that is why, today, on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i call on the commission and the european council to implement as soon as possible the plan already drawn up for the european union's accession to the istanbul convention.
, the question asked by the raising of the blue card. thank you for your vote, but do you not think that the lives of many people are still at risk because we have done nothing to implement the european council's april conclusions on combating industrial illegal immigration and the fight against the trafficking mafias? i am very disappointed with la valletta, because we have heard virtually nothing about the implementation of these promises there, or in the speech by president mogherini today. don't you think it's time to really take action and not encourage people to go overboard?
mr president, the high representative! what connects these two peaks? first of all, the key message at each of these meetings is about the migration crisis and its consequences, including security-related consequences. the african union summit aimed to mobilise and involve, first and foremost, neighbouring african countries in addressing both the causes and sources of migration, and was accompanied by a decision to provide eur 3.6 billion in financial assistance to african countries from the union in the form of a trust fund. this is a good start to build a policy that is aimed at sort of drying up the sources of migration. at the same time, the sad truth is that the un world food fund is running out of money to provide food aid. this is exacerbating the problems in areas with large refugee populations. second, we are under pressure from events, from migration pressure and from acts of terrorism, like in paris. the eu's border security remains weak. unfortunately, whether we like it or not, citizens in many member states associate security risks with migration. the borders need to be protected and protected effectively, especially in the eastern mediterranean. but there are good examples, like spain, where they're actually protecting borders and reducing the pressure of migration. we often say that we need legal channels of migration, but those legal channels of migration are impossible to open if we don't have secure borders. this is an important task for the member states, and no one, even in cooperation with frontex, can do it for them. thirdly, effective cooperation between security services and exchange of information is needed to effectively counter all negative phenomena, including smuggling, terrorism and money laundering. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. in my speech, my dear colleague, there was no mention of spending too much money on migration problems. rather, we see that these funds are insufficient, especially to counter the sources of migration. that was my intention. i welcome the creation of a trust fund, which is particularly concerned with tackling the phenomenon of migration in african countries. i have, however, expressed my view that the pressure to migrate and the migration itself by some citizens or by a large number, or even a part, of citizens of the european union are often accompanied by security risks.
mr. chairman, please! if restoring the old borders was a good thing, it would be even better to make the borders between bavaria and württemberg, between champagne and france, between the basque country and spain. there are still old walls around paris. i propose that these walls be rebuilt and that guards be posted on the walls to keep out anyone who enters paris. that's the logical consequence of what you're saying. we have to do something different, we have to not be intimidated. ladies and gentlemen, 130 people died in paris, 4,000 people die every year in france under the wheels of cars. cars are 30 times more of a problem than terrorists, and we're not hysterical about cars. we can't let the terrorists intimidate us, we're supposed to do business as usual and that's that. we must return to european values, that we are not afraid of death, we must reject the acquis communautaire, restore the death penalty for terrorists of course. it can't be that they can kill us and we can't kill them. we have to go back to europe, reject the european union, go back to europe.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my dear fellow! i agree with you that words are more important than deeds, and this project, which is to be called the 'plan for africa', is a very good concept. but do you not think that until such a project and plan is in place - a concrete plan that is not muddled, empty, full of hypocrisy - until we have it, we should consider sealing the external borders of the european union and possibly readmitting immigrants?
the eu-africa summit in malta was followed by an informal summit of eu leaders in malta. it was convened by the president of the european council, donald tusk, who made no secret of the fact that its aim was to save the schengen area. he was concerned about the actions of the governments of germany, austria and sweden, which temporarily reintroduced border controls. chairman tusk's reaction was delayed, the summit was not a breakthrough. two days later, two more countries, france and belgium, introduced border controls in the wake of the brutal terrorist attacks in paris. but no one doubts that this is all connected with the uncontrolled influx of so-called refugees. in my view, pursuing a policy of compulsory separation will not save the schengen area, but on the contrary, it may contribute to its more rapid disintegration.
mr commissioner, mr minister, mr president, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. the choice of the venue for the council meeting in la valette is a very clear reference to the phenomenon that existed before the war in syria began. i think it is extremely important that we remember the appeals of our maltese colleagues in the european parliament for help in the situation of incoming migrants, of migrants in transit. that was before the mass influx. it's kind of a sign that to solve the problem, we can't just focus on the syrian war. and it's very good that the document that came out in la valletta, it's a much broader aspect of the whole thing, it's a focus on the sources of immigration. and i'm not just talking about refugees, but about all kinds of migration, about the reasons why people are fleeing or moving to better places, and the attention to the whole complex of issues that will need to be addressed, and that's not just ending the war in syria, but also a very serious rethinking of investment in the countries of origin of migrants. this meeting in la valette has shown that we are not dealing with a simple process and even an agreement with turkey will not settle the matter completely. it's a good thing that such a broad perspective found a place there.
mr. chairman, please! the political situation and the humanitarian crisis in burundi have tragic consequences for the stability of that country and the region as a whole. in november alone, the number of burundian refugees in the democratic republic of congo reached nearly 16,000. relations with rwanda have deteriorated due to allegations of a plot against the burundian authorities. the attacks on political parties, opposition organisations, journalists, human rights defenders and the murder of their family members are reprehensible and must be stopped immediately. the restrictions on freedom of expression and the closure of private radio stations, as well as the use of hate speech by senior state officials in the public media, are fuelling a climate of fear, and the joint declaration of cooperation on burundi between the union, the un and the african union adopted at the la vallette summit and the sanctions imposed on burundian state officials are a positive signal. in addition, the burundian government must immediately enter into consultations under the cotonou agreement to end the period of lawlessness in the country.
mr. chairman, please! burundi's history is perhaps one of the saddest on the african continent. after a bloody and long civil war, the country has managed to achieve stability, and was presented as a positive example of peacebuilding two years ago. unfortunately, burundi has been on the brink of civil war for several months now, with its people either living in constant fear of oppression or choosing to seek asylum in neighboring countries. sadly, more and more observers are pointing to the threat of a genocidal conflict. the un resolution adopted a few days ago condemning the escalation of violence in burundi is certainly helpful, but it is not enough. and that's why i think the european union should step up its efforts in terms of diplomacy, in terms of aid, in terms of support for the neighboring countries, because otherwise we're going to see not just another genocide, but also another wave of refugees coming to europe.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing.– on 8 november 2015, the first free elections in the history of myanmar took place. all of the country’s 135 ethnic groups, across numerous religious and socio—economic backgrounds, gathered in order to contribute to this historic moment in the republic of the myanmar. the nld party, which secured a majority of union parliament seats is a great hope for the people of myanmar. the fact that the elections took place might be just a beginning for creating a new, more democratic society, but it is a significant step forward. this is due to the fact that the elections were a major milestone in the transition process that myanmar is going through. this is truly a generational transition – after six decades of conflict and five decades of authoritarian rule. therefore, those elections can be considered a credible sign that myanmar is really changing. hopefully the next thing we know is that it will accelerate its international relations and outside support and reinstate national changes.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in georgia (2015/2975 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the illegal annexation of crimea has caused enormous tension and fear in georgia, affecting this country and bringing it even closer to the western security and defence structure. georgia is the sole non-nato member participating in the nato rapid response force. it is also extremely active in our csdp efforts, as mentioned by the commissioner, in mali, the central african republic and ukraine. i would like to praise these efforts. but there are also less positive outcomes of georgia’s policies. i would like to mention, in particular, freedom of expression and the rustavi 2 case. being a long-standing friend of georgia, i count on changes in these areas. i would like to mention also the existence of political prisoners – opposition leaders imprisoned in tbilisi and elsewhere. i really count on a major change in these areas, and i strongly support visa liberalisation for georgia.
mr gahler, i like your sense of humour, by the way.
mr. chairman, please! georgia is among the eastern partnership countries that are developing the democratic principles of cooperation, transparency and pluralism most rapidly. georgia's position improved in virtually all rankings, both in terms of media freedom, internet freedom, law enforcement, and the quality of civil rights management. these are facts. it is also a fact that pro-european and pro-democratic sentiments and political parties can be threatened by the growing strength of populist, anti-european groups. the strength of populist parties comes not so much from the seductive programmatic proposal of the voters, but from the mistakes of the ruling elites, current and past, and the disappointment of their attitudes revealed in the wiretapping scandals. opposition to the government is also aroused by the brutal methods of dealing with the political opposition and the opposition media as was recently the case with the rustavi 2 television. the overlapping problems with the breakaway provinces of abkhazia and south ossetia raise concerns about whether georgia will be able to maintain its western course and pace of democratic and economic development. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the issue of visas, which are being negotiated between the competent authorities of georgia and the european union. visa-free travel between georgia and the union would be beneficial for both parties not only for political reasons but also for economic reasons and in the context of the development of the bologna process, which georgia is implementing in an exemplary manner. the eu should also be more active in the media and public relations field in georgia, so that russian propaganda does not have such an easy field to operate in. it is necessary to cooperate with the media, to help develop journalism, but also to provide information so that both politicians and voters can base their opinions on a wide and reliable range of facts and opinions. a question to the representative, to the commissioner at this moment, about the progress in the visa negotiations: do we have a chance, is there any chance of a close final, a positive final, and are we planning media projects, will they be implemented in georgia?
i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in moldova (2015/2976 ((rsp)).
mr president, you cannot talk about moldova without talking about transnistria, the narrow scrap of land occupied by the russian army under general lebed. now, probably, the soldiers in the army are married to moldovan girls – who are beautiful, by the way – and there is a problem: what to do with that scrap of land? moldovans and transnistrians do not want to be in moldova, especially now when there is such great corruption, and moldovans do not want to be in the european union, because they know (which is obvious) that where there is democracy, there must be corruption. so they have democracy and they have corruption, and we have two societies – transnistria and moldova – which do not know what to do. unfortunately i do not think we can do anything with that. i think we should leave the matter to its own fate.
mr. chairman, please! in moldova, a political crisis has been growing, directly triggered by the resignation of the government, and for several months now there have been large-scale public protests expressing citizens' disillusionment with public authorities, especially in the context of massive corruption and the disappearance of nearly a billion dollars from the moldovan banking sector. on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to express my concern about the continuing situation in the country, and in particular the slowdown in the reform of the public administration in the areas of justice and public financial management, as also recently reported by the president of the moldovan parliament at a meeting of the parliamentary committee on foreign affairs. however, we appreciate moldova's commitment to the eastern partnership and we maintain our support for its path towards integration with the union. however, it is worth mentioning another milestone of chisinau on this road, namely the signing of the association agreement and the reorientation of exports towards other markets, which now exceeds exports to russia for the first time in history. finally, i would like to express my hope that the moldovan authorities will listen carefully to the voices of social discontent and continue to fight corruption and protect democratic values. we wish our moldovan partners success, although we poles know very well that the goals set are not easy to achieve in the situation of blackmail and political and economic pressure from russia, which step by step, from crimea through donetsk to abkhazia, seeks to rebuild its empire at the expense of the independence and even the territorial integrity of its closest neighbors.
mr. chairman, please! just a year ago, moldova signed an association agreement with the eu, became the first eastern partnership country to get visa-free travel and access, broad access, to the european market, and it seemed that moldova's pro-western course was in no danger. in the last months and weeks we have seen moldova go through a political earthquake, the demonstrations in chisinau against the theft of the century, but also against the corruption of the political elites, a kind of state privatization by the oligarchs led to the fall of the pro-european government, which on october 29th, so quite recently, was forced to resign, to resign. trust in the european union has fallen, and the imf has suspended financing of previously planned loans, so moldova is plunging into a deep political and economic crisis, and this makes it very vulnerable to external influences, including from russia, which would see it in its eurasian union. i am convinced that moldova deserves more, that it is able to prepare the necessary changes, first of all changes in the judicial system, because a functioning judicial system, the conviction of citizens that justice is possible, is the basis of civic activity and the functioning of virtually all institutions. and in this context, the question arises: what is our task, what can we do as the european union to make this mission a success? what specifically, what specifically can we do to help moldova? can we also help fight russian propaganda, provide relevant information and do everything we can to avoid pushing moldova into the arms of big brother?
mr president, moldova was a good example of a success story, with economic growth, well—implemented visa liberalisation and an accession agreement, but moldovan leaders have made lots of mistakes. the reasons are deep and have roots in the past, meaning there is a lack of transparency and responsibility among the political elites. they have lost credibility, they have lost money from the banking system, they have lost the trust of citizens just one year after the parliamentary elections, and they have lost the unity needed for pro-european development. divided, the political elites have no power to lead the country. now they have decided to announce a new election without fully recognising what the results might be. we are on the moldovan side, but we need, day by day, arguments to promote its integration with the eu. it is our duty to support them on the path to reforms: anti—corruption measures; the reform of state-owned and controlled companies; and the signing of an agreement with the imf to continue the implementation of eu assistance and balance the budget. it is our duty – as elmar brok said – to support moldova in finding the proper way for themselves. we can settle emotions, but time is running out and moldovan citizens are waiting for a new leadership – a leadership of trust.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by ms linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on the education of children in emergencies and protracted crises (o-000147/2015 - b8-1108/2015) (2015/2977 ((rsp))
i have received the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. access to education is one of the fundamental rights of children everywhere. unfortunately, because of the protracted nature of today's crises, about a billion children live in conflict zones, and a large number of them are out of school. it is important to treat education as an integral part of both humanitarian action and long-term development assistance. to be effective, this assistance must be resourced at every stage and implemented in cooperation with local authorities and actors. it should also be remembered that for children living in war-torn countries, education often acts as a springboard from the trauma and difficult conditions they experience on a daily basis. i welcomed the declaration by commissioner stylianides that 4% of the eu's humanitarian budget would be allocated to the education of children in crisis situations. i call on the european commission to continue and expand actions such as the 'children of peace' initiative, which was funded with eu nobel peace prize money. in the context of the current difficult international situation, it should be stressed that education is a protection against radicalisation and an antidote to intolerance and discrimination, which are the most common causes of conflict and war.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i would like to thank the european court of auditors for the report and the work which was done by it. i would like to recall that the indication of great importance here is that the european decision-makers must align the budget better with the european union’s long-term strategic priorities. the budget has especially to be more responsive in a crisis. we have to ensure that spending schemes outline the results to be achieved. the eu should be a better manager of its budget and should invest better, and to make this possible, it should reconcile its priorities. the money spent should always achieve the intended result. the estimated error rate for expenditure is still high: 4.4%. although some errors were corrected, this is still such a high rate.
madam president! first of all, thank you very much for your honest and necessary report. i would like to refer to your speech, mr caldeira, in which you say that the european union should solve the problem of accumulated financial backlogs, which is a very important warning to both the commission and the council. it's a shame the council isn't here. this year, 2015, will be the year that closes the previous perspective, but at the same time we are in the second year of the current perspective, so these payments can actually accumulate additionally, and we have to take this into account. mr president, you have used three of these postulates: transparency and simplification of the rules. well, i see a conflict here, because we often complicate the rules in the name of transparency. how do you reconcile the two? and finally, i'm very supportive of this performance orientation.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, my most sincere thanks to all who have spoken. it is a very interesting debate this year, because what i am hearing is a predominant concern about how we can rebalance attention between compliance with the rules and what the budget actually delivers for our people. i think it is very important that we take this focus on performance extremely seriously. the eu budget actually has been doing good things, if you take the growth rates of poland, lithuania and latvia, for example. over the last mff they have been boosted for poland by 1.7%, for latvia by 2.1% and for lithuania by 1.8%. as the budget commissioner this year, i have been visiting projects funded by the eu: cancer research in finland, sme support in the uk, connectivity of citizens in the cohesion countries and rural internet, but i also have seen that sometimes there has not been enough thought put into how this particular project connects with the rest of the economy, and there are examples where we could have – and must – do better. i think that a culture shift in thinking as regards what we get for the money has to be our overwhelming objective. agility, focus on priorities, impact – this is what the discussion on the budget absolutely must be on. we do have now in the new mff a better platform, because we have placed performance front and centre. we introduced performance reserve – 6% of the money we hold back, and if you do well, we give you more money. we have to work with our people in the commission and, of course, in the member states on a culture shift. this is not an easy thing, but it is a must if we are to be successful in making the best use of our taxpayers’ sacrifices. for every project, for every penny, we have to ask ourselves if this is the best use of money. i really appreciate each and every one of you who spoke in support of this rebalancing. it does not mean we turn our backs on compliance with the rules – not at all. rules are there to be followed. right now they are too complicated to be followed! we have multiple projects with thousands and thousands of people who have to grasp the concept of project management that we have introduced from the eu – a concept that may be easy for some, but it is certainly not easy for a small farmer or for an sme owner, so we have to work on simplifying the rules so they can be followed, and then we have to come with a hammer when the rules are not followed. i agree with those who have said that the persistence of the error rate is something that is undermining the credibility of the european union. we know why this persistence is there. rules are part of the problem, but so is how much commitment we build on to make sure that these rules are indeed followed. as i have said many times, we also have to find a way to reward those who take measures to correct errors, because this is what it is in the majority of cases – error, not fraud. proven fraud is 0.2% of our budget – 0.2% too much. i am not at all defending it, but what about the remaining 4.2%? how do we encourage people to do what the court tells us could be done if you take corrective measures and the error rate will go down? there we hit a problem, which is the multiannual nature of our programmes. when an error is detected in one year but only corrected in the next, that is not reflected in the error rate, and this is why in the commission we strongly recommend that we think about a residual error rate as an acceptable measurement, because if people take measures to correct, then that should be a positive thing. we should be saying bravo, we recognise you have done it. at the moment it is difficult to do it in a multiannual fashion. we are caught in this annuality in how we measure. finally, i do agree that we have to persistently balance performance and compliance. we should avoid the reasoning according to which focusing on performance is somehow interpreted to mean ‘oh well, compliance with the rules is not that important’ – it is important! let me finish with the question that was posed to me on ‘name and shame’. well, it is complicated as to which member states are performing the worst. if you look at the court of auditors’ report, there is a table that shows frequency of detected errors in audit sampling for 2014 for the member states. it is very clear that it varies from one area to another. in some areas some countries are doing better, in others they are doing worse. so i would be very reluctant to make general sweeping conclusions but rather say the following: we have to work with member states day in, day out, because at the end of the day, 80% of our money goes in shared management, and it is only when member states buy into being diligent and working with us that we can achieve that objective. finally, many thanks go to the court of auditors for the report that it has presented. a lot of it is something that has been coming up year after year, but we are now seeing a very welcome change of direction towards performance. we have, with this interinstitutional group, a very important task to see performance eye to eye, because the worst thing we can do is to have a different interpretation of what performance means and then get into not very productive arguments about who is right and who is wrong on what has been achieved in that area. so i very much look forward to working with parliament, the council and the court of auditors on giving a very clear direction for the commission – though the commission is not the most important actor – and for those who implement projects, so we get the european budget to serve our people the best possible way in the future.
court of auditors.– madam president, i would like first to thank you for the kind words addressed to the european court of auditors; on behalf of all those working there, thank you. your words encourage us to do better and to practise what you preach. we do that every day, so i want to reassure mr marinescu that we are doing that and striving for it. i am very pleased to hear from the vice-president that the commission greatly welcomes our call for a wholly new approach to the european union’s spending and investment. i am also pleased to see the broader consensus in this house on the need for that new approach. we simply cannot ignore the fact that it is a common task that needs interinstitutional cooperation from all institutions within member states, because it is the best possible way to tackle the financial challenges ahead of us. i stress the need to use the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and to take it as a golden opportunity to make progress. members of parliament have raised a number of issues in their speeches. i will not address every one of them, but i am encouraged by their willingness to reach a greater common understanding of what a new approach means, what a culture of performance means, and what we are looking for. that is something which will not be done overnight and which needs to go hand in hand with simplification of the rules as well as with clear objectives. i have understood the call for ways of reconciling transparency and simplification. this needs to be addressed in the best way possible. we need simplification because debt is amplifying the risk of error, but we also need to be transparent so that we can then say what we are achieving with the funds we are investing. so we have to have, first and foremost, a clear overall framework that provides direction. but we also need to be aware that spending funds is always risky. i am sorry to say this so bluntly, but geography is not the root cause of the errors. as we have demonstrated, management modes are, likewise, not the main cause of the problem. the main reason for the errors that we have found, and for their persistently high level, lies in the way this house and the council decide on the legal framework for reimbursing costs. if you continue to have costs reimbursed on the basis of self-declarations by the final beneficiaries, then you will always have a higher risk of error. simplification does not mean forgetting about control. it needs to have cost-effective arrangements to ensure that we comply with the rules but, at the same time, we need to ensure that these are used to the best effect. then performance has a key part to play. what we are intending to measure is the interinstitutional work that we have to do. flexibility is also an important consideration, so some members estimate. i think that it is also vital to better address the backlogs which we have identified and which have been recognised on all sides. we need to use the budget in a more flexible way, together with all the financial instruments available, otherwise we will have funds committed but not being used. we know that at the end of 2014, the funds not yet used by all the member states for the structural and investment funds were of the order of 23% of the total. that situation is better today, i believe, but that means that we are not making full use of resources, and there are reasons beyond that. probably there are administrative capacities to develop. probably there is also a need for member state authorities to identify sustainable approaches that would make a difference to the lives of their citizens. in addition, a lot needs to be done to determine what makes a difference to citizens, for they will not think that building, say, a water-park is enough to make a difference. we need to see how sustainable approaches work and how they change citizens’ lives. i would like to conclude by saying that our call for a wholly new approach has to be followed up in interinstitutional dialogues, because that is the only way in which we can help to address the new challenges. it is the only way to tackle the long-standing issues that we have, but we need to take the opportunity afforded by the mid-term review of the mff to move forward. we look forward to contributing to the dialogue and we stand side by side with this institution, the european parliament, to further cooperate in that direction. but we cannot fail. if we miss this opportunity, we shall be failing to address the trust of citizens, and that is a crucial point in these times.
in writing. in its 2014 report, the european court of auditors calls for a new approach to the management and investment of eu funds. according to its guidelines, the budget should be better aligned with the community's long-term priorities and take greater account of possible crisis situations. in addition, the union should address the problem of financial backlogs without delay, in order to free up resources and direct them where they are needed. some member states still have problems absorbing the eu structural funds allocated to them. the total eu budget in 2014 is eur 142.5 billion, and the error rate for eu expenditure was 4.4%. however, the auditors considered that they had no objections to the reliability of the accounts and to the eu's revenue. they found the same estimated level of error (4,6%) for expenditure under shared management with the member states as for expenditure managed directly by the commission. the highest levels of error were found in expenditure under the headings 'economic, social and territorial cohesion' (5.7%) and 'competitiveness for growth and jobs' (5.6%). the lowest estimated level of error was in administrative expenditure (0.5%). however, the report stresses that more errors could have been corrected and calls on the commission to use its powers to further reduce the level of error and recover more of the funds wrongly spent.
in writing. the court, the eu's independent external auditor, is responsible for examining whether the collection and spending of eu funds is in line with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. this is particularly important in times of crisis, when the growing problems are followed by a natural decline in the confidence of europeans in the union in difficult situations. this is why systematically increasing the level of accountability and transparency in the process of overseeing the use of public funds is so important in order to rebuild this trust. close cooperation between the parliaments of the member states and the union's public auditors is also of great importance. in the process of building trust in the union institutions, the purposefulness of expenditure is essential, in addition to the pursuit of maximum transparency and economy. public funds must be used for the purposes that are most important to citizens. the european union budget is a major source of potential investment for many member states. they provide significant support for national initiatives not only to improve economic efficiency, but also to create jobs, secure borders and protect the environment. in order to best fulfil its tasks, eto should continuously analyse and draw conclusions from them. the call of the eto to adopt a new approach to the management of investments and expenditure of eu funds by introducing a number of significant changes in the activities of the entities responsible for the control of eu funds should therefore be welcomed.
in writing. despite the long-standing commitment of the european union and individual member states to improving the situation in afghanistan, the country remains one of the poorest and most dangerous regions in the world. attacks, rebellions, and fratricidal fighting continue to wreak havoc among the civilian population. women and children are dying. the most vulnerable to persecution are ethnic and religious minorities in afghanistan. the murder of seven members of the hazara people is a vicious example of this. bodies of isis abductees and brutal murderers, including two women and a child, have been found in zabul province in southeastern afghanistan. the european union, as the guardian of human rights, cannot stand by and watch the barbarism and terror being perpetrated against the afghan people. the perpetrators of the murders must be punished afghan protesters demand this. the necessary measures must be taken to enhance security and restore balance in the region. peace and political stability are the basis for ensuring the development and future of the afghan society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we cannot tolerate the practice of violating human rights and the basic principles of civilized political systems in cambodia. there is political repression, prison sentences, arrests of opposition leaders, representatives of opposition groups. this is not even a political struggle, it is simply the barbaric use of the criminal law to destroy the political opposition. we must respond to this as we did over 20 years ago to the evil and the practices of communism in europe, which was doing the same thing that is happening in cambodia today. hence the need for this resolution, the obvious, strong need for this resolution. and one more thing: we have to be consistent about this. a lot depends on the european commission and the european council. we should be consistent and make humanitarian aid conditional on the observance of basic standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to express my concern about the deteriorating political situation in cambodia. the lack of dialogue between the government and other political parties, the violence against members of the national assembly, and the arrest warrant for the main opposition leader sam rainsy are leading to a dangerous tipping point, especially when it comes to respect for human rights in cambodia. it is important to note that the european union is cambodia's largest development aid partner with a budget of eur 410 million for the years 2014-2020, and therefore calls on the cambodian government, prime minister hun sen, to improve the situation in the country by unconditionally releasing activists wrongfully accused, repealing the law restricting the activities of associations and ngos, restoring the parliamentary immunity of rainsy and recognizing the role of civil society in cambodia. i also ask you, high representative, to monitor the situation in this country and to cooperate with the government in order to restore democratic principles.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. many innocent people - activists, journalists, bloggers, foreigners, members of religious minorities, including christians - have been murdered in cold blood in bangladesh recently. others received death threats. the attacks are believed to be carried out by islamic extremists, some of whom may be linked to the current opposition, and some of whom may be affiliated with isil or al-qaeda. we have seen terrorism in europe recently, and the events in bangladesh are a clear signal that we are talking about a global problem that affects many countries in different regions of the world. the authorities are doing everything possible to find and bring to justice the perpetrators of the attacks and to prevent similar violent attacks in the future. we should strongly support such actions, while ensuring that terrorist attacks do not become a pretext for tightening the rules on media freedom or the activities of ngos and human rights defenders, as has unfortunately recently happened. however, it would be a mistake in the current situation to focus only on the government's policy in this area and to ignore the main problem that this government is trying to solve. combating the threat posed by islamic terrorism - regardless of its source and whether it is linked to domestic forces or to the islamic state - should be the absolute priority of the authorities.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out the objectives and tasks for the 10th wto ministerial conference to be held in nairobi, kenya, and expresses the hope that the recently agreed trade facilitation agreement will be ratified by enough countries to become wto rules. however, the chances of reaching a final agreement on the doha development round appear slim. it is believed that the differences between the various positions are still irreconcilable. the question therefore remains of outcomes that are independent of the tfa and of the role of the wto should it remain impossible to reach a full agreement. the resolution calls on all parties to reach a final agreement. the resolution proposes to consider a number of issues in an innovative way, with particular attention to what the wto can achieve in terms of the development of the least developed countries, and to the agreement on information technology and the agreement on environmental goods, which are initiatives that i strongly support.
in writing. ‒ the wto still faces many problems and unresolved issues, but it should be borne in mind that reconciling the interests of countries at different stages of development and often with conflicting interests is not an easy task. the abandonment of support for farmers and agriculture, especially in areas with difficult economic conditions, would lead to the depopulation of many areas and generate unemployment. if agricultural production is phased out and a part of the population moves away, it is much more difficult and costly to restore life in the region than to support local production and offer farmers additional forms of activity. agriculture in areas of natural handicap, peripheral and mountain areas also provides important environmental and climate services. in the context of combating climate change, it should also be noted that the specific nature of agriculture is that it not only emits greenhouse gases but is also responsible for absorbing and capturing huge amounts of them. we cannot forget the importance of agriculture to people's daily lives and the quality of the food they eat, as it relates to their health and lives and the environment around us. in the context of multilateral negotiations and the progressive liberalisation of world trade, we must not forget that agriculture is not just one of the sectors of national economies, but a supplier of products that are crucial to our lives and strategically sensitive.
in writing. ‒ the doha round was launched 15 years ago, and to date the wto countries have been unable to reach an agreement to create new trade opportunities and redress existing inequalities in the international trading system. the european union has always been a promoter of multilateral solutions and should therefore also lead the talks in the current negotiations. the early conclusion of the negotiations on the doha development agenda is particularly important in view of the existing and emerging non-tariff barriers that impede open and fair multilateral trade. moreover, for the first time, the wto has placed a particular emphasis on addressing the special needs and interests of developing countries, which are often unable to compete with the economic giants in a globalising world. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolution and i believe that the ministerial conference in nairobi in december will prove to be a turning point.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out the objectives and tasks to be pursued by the international trade commission at the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation in nairobi. the aim of ensuring that the trade facilitation agreement resulting from the previous wto ministerial conference is ratified by a sufficient number of states to enter into force was identified as a priority action. the agreement agreed at the 9th conference implements the demands of the 2001 doha round to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and correct existing inequalities in the trading system by focusing the negotiations on developing countries, in particular the least developed countries. i believe that it is important to make it easier for the least developed countries to access the international trading market, which will be a real opportunity to improve their economic situation, and i see the possibility of the european union having a positive influence on the final agreement. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the text of the proposed resolution.
i should like to say that i was relieved to receive this report, not satisfied, but relieved, but i was pleased with the report and the work carried out. i would like to emphasise that all the issues raised were extremely interesting, but unfortunately a few amendments concerned me (those were fortunately rejected). i would like to stress that i expect greater consistency and better anticipation in this matter, because it is very important that the european parliament does not forget these issues when pathologies, in particular, appear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020, as it calls on the commission to come forward with a new proposal on this issue. it also stresses the need to continue the efforts started in the 2012-2015 strategy and calls on the commission to implement the missing elements of the 2012-2015 strategy without delay. i supported this document because it calls on the commission to take animal welfare standards into account in the negotiation of agreements with third countries.
in writing. animal welfare is a very popular issue of recent times and relates not only to breeding rules but also to the provision of comprehensive veterinary care to animals, including regular vaccinations, appropriate transport conditions and humane slaughter. this is the backdrop against which animal rights activists and producers are clashing. it is in the breeder's interest to sell as much as possible at the lowest cost, which unfortunately can lead to abuse in terms of inadequate housing or medical conditions. beyond the moral dimension of such actions, this may result in a lowering of the quality of meat and other animal products. it should be borne in mind that the more comfortable the animals are, the higher the quality of the products they produce. there is also the other extreme: if the highest possible standards were introduced and enforced, production costs would increase several times, leading to higher prices and consequently affecting consumers in the first place. it is necessary to analyze all the pros and cons of this case. only on this basis can legislation be drawn up to the benefit of animals, breeders and, above all, consumers.
in writing. ‒ 37 million children are currently out of school due to conflict and crisis. we now face the risk of entire generations being deprived of access to education, which could have serious consequences in the future, further increase in violence and ultimately escalation of further conflicts. at the same time, education is the most underfunded humanitarian aid sector in the world. it accounts for only 2% of all humanitarian aid. we need to break this vicious cycle and start investing in education, which is one of the fundamental rights of children around the world and is a very important tool to fight conflicts and crises. greater access to education leads to improved living standards, better economic prospects and the promotion of dialogue, tolerance and peaceful resolution of problems. it is estimated that increasing the proportion of young people with a secondary education from 30% to 60% could halve the risk of conflict. quality education is also a key to helping to combat radicalisation and extremism. through education, young people develop critical thinking skills, social and civic competence and respect for diversity.
in writing. ‒ the un estimates that one billion children live in conflict-affected areas and are denied their basic right to education. it is highly likely that, in the context of the current migration crisis, the number of children with limited access to education will increase. this is why it is so important to take action both within the union itself and in our external relations to help these children. it is certain that no country's economy can develop without a young and educated workforce. therefore, it is our duty to provide education to children in emergencies and in times of protracted crises, as they will be an essential part of the process of rebuilding societies in countries where conflicts have ended. parliament's resolution is a legitimate part of the eu strategy, which is why i decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on simplification in cohesion policy. although the results of cohesion policy are encouraging and lead to real growth and higher investment, i am convinced that these effects could be further enhanced if the administrative barriers that reduce the effectiveness of this policy were removed. the lack of trust between all the beneficiaries, the managing authorities and the european commission is undoubtedly at the root of many problems. i am convinced that greater flexibility, based on mutual trust between the various actors, would allow us to respond quickly and effectively to the needs that arise, and thus unlock the additional potential of cohesion policy. refinements and simplifications also require often unclear guidelines and rules, as well as the formulation of expectations from beneficiaries. these factors, which are not the result of badwill on the part of the beneficiaries, are often the cause of irregularities detected at the audit stage. i am convinced that the resolution voted today is an important step towards the much needed simplification and i hope that it will be implemented soon.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the efforts to simplify burdensome financial procedures and management and reporting procedures in the implementation of the european structural and investment funds, which were part of the reformed cohesion policy for 2014-2020, while stressing that a sensible balance should be struck between simplification and ensuring effective financial control measures. i also support the creation of a new group of high-level independent experts to monitor simplification and the european commission's better regulation strategy as positive steps towards greater simplification. however, much remains to be done to improve legislation, support the e-cohesion system, identify good practices and, in the longer term, simplify the structures and processes associated with the european structural and investment funds. the areas of shared management, including implementation, management, reporting and control activities, continue to place an undue burden on both managing authorities and beneficiaries, including municipalities and small enterprises, and may have negative effects in terms of investment and absorption of funds. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ despite the reform of cohesion policy and its significant simplification, the application, supervision and management of the funds remain problematic for both beneficiaries and managing institutions. the complex procedures may therefore discourage potential beneficiaries from using eu aid programmes. in its resolution, the european parliament rightly pointed to the need to promote the simplification of the rules on financial instruments under the european structural and investment funds in order to better adapt them to the needs of the beneficiaries, which could, in turn, contribute to an increase in their use. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the ep resolution.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, mr tsipras is your friend. he bragged about it. not mine. i would like to ask you one thing, however, do you realize that greece has been exposed to the mafia of illegal human trafficking for many months, that there has been an incredible increase in human trafficking from turkey, and we are doing nothing. the previous summit with turkey was not about this problem at all, the previous talks about turkey were not about fighting illegal immigration at all. that's the problem, not that individual countries are defending themselves against it.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'd like to ask you one question. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states, and has also been asked to provide a number of proposals for the establishment of a european police office. this is not supported by the european treaties. how can you imagine, on the basis of the provisions of the treaty currently in force, the creation of an institution which infringes the core sovereignty of individual states?
madam president! the commission has today adopted an ambitious circular economy package with an ambitious recycling target of 65%. this is a realization of the previous project. secondly, this objective cannot be achieved without cooperation with local authorities, but also with society. it requires full acceptance of these proposals. thirdly, the commission has been criticised for saying that the new targets will lead to fewer jobs being created, but it must also be a realistic project, because if it is too ambitious, then households and our families will pay for it. fourth, this objective cannot be achieved without recycling toxic substances. the target and the level of recycling of plastics, among other things, is mentioned here, but a lot of it is still in landfills. we have to do something about this. and fifth, some countries should be given more time to adjust to this goal. consideration should be given to raising the recycling rate to 25% of the current level as a criterion for countries to be given an additional 5 years to implement this project.
in writing. construction materials change their original structure in a technological process. there's a decrease in the exergy of these material systems, accompanied by an increase in their entropy. therefore, restoring them to their original state would require additional energy, which would result in an unavoidable increase in co2 emissions. this is the case with steel produced by the recycling of scrap, which increases impurities, especially copper, which reduces its plasticity and increases its brittleness. this is the case with recycled thermoplastics, where the polymer chains shorten, leading to a decrease in strength. this is the case with complex materials, with electronic and composite scrap, which practically create waste that is not suitable for further processing. the history of technology provides numerous examples of technologies that were once used, but which were accompanied by significant waste, creating the large, currently exploited, dumps. such technological niches are already excluded. in conclusion, a circular economy, or a waste-free economy, is not simply recycling but a creative search for other uses for secondary raw materials, from their production use through the recovery of the energy contained in them to the permanent and useful deposit of residues, for example in the form of substrate materials.
on behalf of the ecr group. the migration crisis affecting europe is a major challenge for frontex. its commitment to combating trafficking in human beings is a testament to its responsibility. and yet, human trafficking, linked to drug trafficking, arms trafficking and - unfortunately - terrorism, is part of the phenomenon we are dealing with today. we need to strengthen the external borders of the european union, we need to implement a return programme. this requires the reinforcement of frontex. i just wanted to thank all the people at the agency for doing a great job.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! frontex is a frontline agency. in poland, the name is even very similar: the front is the border that divides our territory from the territory of our competitor, very often hostile territory. if we let our soldiers on the front line take each other to court instead of fighting, then the competition and the enemies will not only defeat us, but they will also laugh at us. we'd just be pathetic. frontex is bad, it is inefficient and it is not yet time to make it worse. this functioning should be improved as far as possible and as soon as possible, and it would probably be best to replace this frontex with an institution that would fulfil this role quickly, efficiently and effectively. frontex is here to protect us, not to paralyze and weaken and humiliate us in front of the whole world. we really need to start defending our own territory. that's what frontex is for.
madam president, the establishment of an individual complaints mechanism as proposed by the european ombudsman is, of course, necessary. nonetheless, i believe that this report is absolutely not the basis for questioning the competences of the frontex agency. the proposed provisions applicable to the frontex fundamental rights policy must adhere to reasonable procedure so as not to block the execution of frontex duties. the mechanism must provide legal safeguards which balance the need to protect fundamental rights with the possible misuse of the right to complain. that is the reason why i believe that, in general, anonymous complaints should not be considered admissible. finally, let us have in mind that our voice here can contribute greatly to the soon—to—be—published european commission proposals for the revision of the frontex regulation.
in writing. an independent agency within the european union frontex was established by a regulation of the eu council of 26 october 2004. it has been the subject of frequent criticism from the european parliament over the course of its decades of existence. mainly due to the lack of transparency of its actions, especially in the area of human rights violations, i.e. the return of refugees without verifying their right to asylum. the ombudsman decided to include in his latest report a special requirement for the establishment of a mechanism for the submission and handling of individual complaints. this would be of great importance to frontex, especially as this need is the result of the growing humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu's external borders. it would thus become the body of first instance responsible for dealing with these complaints and would contribute to greater transparency and respect for fundamental rights in the context of frontex working arrangements. however, i would like to stress that this mechanism should be based on the criteria of accessibility, independence, efficiency and transparency, and on an information campaign that takes account of a number of aspects, including linguistic ones. this campaign, together with a well-designed complaints control and admissibility procedure, will make the help to complainants more visible and human rights more respected at our external borders.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. there are undoubtedly advantages and disadvantages to city life. communication problems are definitely one of them. traffic jams, high death rates, insufficient parking and inadequate infrastructure for pedestrians and cyclists are all daily problems for many eu citizens. it is hard to imagine a time when these problems will be completely eliminated, but we can reduce their burden permanently. an extensive public transport network, including the extensive use of trams and other rail vehicles, is a clear solution. however, other urban traffic participants, including pedestrians and cyclists, should be better protected in urban areas. however, despite the absolutely correct proposals contained in this report, i cannot agree to such a one-dimensional treatment of motor vehicle users in this report.
in writing. the diversification of transport and the drive towards sustainable urban mobility are clearly beneficial for the climate and for improving air quality, which directly translates into protecting the health of urban dwellers. therefore, actions to efficiently combine transport solutions such as public transport, shared transport, bicycle use and rental are very much needed. especially since they not only help to reduce air pollution, but also promote a very important physical activity every day. but we must be careful not to overdo it and to ensure that our goodwill does not have the opposite effect, that it does not make life more difficult for the people who live in the city, especially those groups who, for example, have a business based on a particular means of transport. it is also worth remembering that the use of the european civil satellite navigation programmes galileo and egnos, which provide information on, for example, traffic and mobility, can be very helpful in the detailed assessment of needs as well as the impact of the implemented actions.
mr. chairman, please! i am a great supporter of development aid, the duty of europe, as john paul ii once wrote, of solidarity on a global scale. but because i'm a big supporter of development aid, i'm urging people to be sober, not to talk about it in terms of an advertising campaign. we need not be complacent, but we need a real evaluation of the effects of european measures. the answer to the question of whether we are matching european spending with that of the member states, and finally, whether our resources are being complemented by the other major players in international politics, the united states and china. it requires a culture of integrity, not a culture of complacency. and i also urge that, and this great response to the challenge of our time, the challenge of migration and refugees. i believe that development policy must change to meet this challenge effectively.
in writing. the european year for development has a special role to play in communicating and actively engaging european citizens and civil society organisations in development aid and political dialogue. according to official figures, some 20 million eu citizens are personally involved in development ngos, some 130 million people donate to organisations helping developing countries, and 72% of the european public support the idea of helping the least developed countries. this is a good result, and it also shows that more and more people are understanding that development starts in their own country through mutual aid, fair trade, and participation in political processes. the key to the success of the previous thematic 'european years' was the close cooperation between the eu institutions and civil society, both at national and eu level. multi-level actions play a key role in shaping policy processes and should therefore be given the highest priority and receive sufficient funding. most of the official development assistance (60%) comes from eu member states, with some support from the eu budget. the establishment of a broad and all-inclusive civil society alliance should be pursued, which should, as in previous years, play a leading role in the planning and implementation of the european year of development.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the european year for development, which is coming to an end, has made it a priority to raise awareness among eu citizens about development aid: what is it? what's it for? how does he manage public funds? we wanted to convey to as many people as possible that development aid is good for all of us, that it increases our sense of shared responsibility and that it teaches us solidarity on a global scale. the summit culminated in a special summit on sustainable development, setting out the world's development goals for 2030. i am particularly pleased with the goals of poverty reduction and the renewal of the global partnership for development, where we will further strengthen international cooperation in this area. i also had the pleasure of welcoming my country's initiatives, which include a wide range of cultural events, and in particular those aimed at young people, such as the photography competitions and the 6th international documentary film festival humandoc, which combined the presentation of world-class cinema with global education and the promotion of aid to developing countries. i hope that the erc's legacy will be a valuable contribution to the new sustainable development goals and that its motto 'our world, our dignity, our future' will be remembered by citizens for a long time to come as a symbol of our collective european co-responsibility and solidarity in the year ahead.
in writing. the designation of 2015 as the year of development was linked to the expiry of the deadline for the millennium development goals, agreed by the world in 2000. it is also the time to set the sustainable development goals, the priorities for the coming years. one of the objectives of the european year for development was to campaign for eu citizens to learn how development aid is making a difference in countries that need it. it was also intended to demonstrate the european union's special commitment, as the world's largest donor of development aid, to combating poverty, climate change and protecting the earth's natural resources. not only the eu institutions but also the member states have been involved in promoting the year. information campaigns, conferences, events and debates were organised all over europe. and with digital and social media, the message has reached young people as well. it is important to remember that development aid is about building a safer and more prosperous world. over the past 10 years, eu funds have helped 14 million children go to school, more than 70 million people have access to clean drinking water and 7.5 million births have been attended by qualified medical staff, saving the lives of mothers and babies. the european year for development has, in my view, met its objectives and proved a success.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about this directive again in this house, and we are talking about it again because so many people, institutions and organisations want to see gender balance in company boards and supervisory boards become a reality. at the moment we have a situation where this directive is stuck in the council, there is a blocking minority, that is denmark, germany, estonia, hungary, latvia, the netherlands, the czech republic, the united kingdom, sweden. and i want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that among this blocking minority, the motives for blocking are very diverse, because there are countries like germany, denmark, the netherlands, sweden, that are working very hard on this issue and have different solutions. germany has introduced quotas, sweden is spending a lot of money on their programmes, but in any case, the countries that care about the target are a different group than the countries that do not want the directive, and have a very low percentage of women on the boards and do nothing to change this situation. i think that there is a very different way of negotiating and talking in practice with those countries which do not want to achieve the objective which is in the directive and with those countries which want to achieve that objective. perhaps these alternative methods of achieving the objective, other than in the directive, could somehow be combined with this directive and then perhaps we would achieve the objective, because what we really want is for women to break through the glass ceiling, so that women's competences and women's talents are not wasted and so that women can take responsibility for the results of their work not only in politics but also in business.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about a very serious subject here today, but it's also a very sensitive one. there is no reason why in today's modern society, in the 21st century, there should not be equality between women and men. this is absolutely, absolutely, absolutely important, essential and absolutely necessary to be done in public institutions, and above all those that represent and are representative of the community. but the problem is not with the public sector, it's with the private sector, and i understand that problem. it must be borne in mind that we are dealing here with economic activity and therefore with the freedom to pursue that economic activity. we are dealing with the inviolability of property rights. this is compounded by the issue of the autonomy of states in creating the legal situation in their own countries. this again relates to the principle of proportionality in the european union legislation. so i understand the problem of the councils and i understand that this case is taking a lot of time. i suppose it will continue to occupy time, because it's more about cultural change than law.
in writing. the issue of gender imbalance, not only in company boards but in the labour market in general, has been a concern of the eu institutions for many years. we need to reflect on the actions we're taking. the directive on women on boards is the best example of how hard measures, contrary to the expectations of businesses and some governments, are not effective. the council has been unable to take a position for several years. perhaps we should consider whether a directive imposing gender limits on company boards is the best solution. increasing the number of women among directors cannot be an end in itself. it is more important to improve their situation in the labour market, and this requires the creation of conditions for reconciling family life with working life. if we force companies to accept a certain number of women on their boards, and if we do not provide this support, it is very unlikely that women with families will choose to do so. so our aim should not be to establish a 40% representation of women on boards, but to ensure that the way to this body is open to all competent people, regardless of gender. this requires greater involvement of men in childrearing and the spread of mechanisms to facilitate the reconciliation of family and professional life, rather than mandatory quotas and other rigid mechanisms.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the concern for democracy in europe, for the rule of law, for the fundamental values of europe is commendable. it is the duty of the european parliament to respond to breaches of these rules in the countries that are members of the union. however, assessments and analyses of the situation in individual countries should be balanced and based on facts, and should not interfere with the sovereign decisions of these countries, which are made democratically. that is why the european commission's balanced position is so welcome. hungary was criticized in the european parliament for allegedly trying to reinstate the death penalty, but nothing happened and the hungarian government denied it had any such intentions from the beginning. criticising the hungarian government for seeing a link between the phenomenon of immigration - mass immigration - and a threat to security is absurd in light of what happened in paris. accusing hungary of closing the border when the problem of protecting the eu's external borders is to be solved by turkish hands is hypocrisy. accusations of populism, nationalism or xenophobia, thrown without reason, serve only as political weapons against inconvenient governments or political parties. while respecting the german willkommenskultur, we cannot agree to impose it on all european countries. respecting the diversity of political views as the essence of democracy, we cannot accept a monopoly of left-liberal views in europe. article 3a of the lisbon treaty states: 'the union shall respect the equality of member states before the treaties and their national identities, which are inextricably linked to their fundamental political and constitutional structures. it respects the fundamental functions of the state, in particular those aimed at ensuring its territorial integrity.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - mr. ambassador, minister, i have to go. are you aware that article 2, paragraph 2 of the charter of fundamental rights prohibits the imposition and execution of the death penalty, but does not force governments to block discussion? and if we're talking about the bill of rights, then maybe you should recall whether your government has respected the rights of parents, which are guaranteed in the bill of rights, to raise their children according to their own moral convictions. i've seen in spain how the spanish society reacted, so i really encourage a little more modesty.
blue-card question. – how would you stop mr orbán? by sending in the red army?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo is one of the most famous parks in africa, and is a unesco world heritage site. irreversible damage to the park's flora and fauna may result from oil exploration and extraction, as discussed here. more than 80% of the park's area is covered by hydrocarbon exploration concessions. the concession is in breach of international conventions to which the drc is a signatory, as well as congolese law itself. in addition, the legal system that governs the exploitation of oil resources in this country is ineffective. attempts are being made to declassify part or all of the park. the park is also one of the most dangerous places in the world: for more than 20 years, armed conflict between rebel forces and government forces has made it difficult to effectively protect the area's wildlife and put workers' lives at risk. in the last 10 years alone, over 240 of the guards my colleague zeller mentioned have lost their lives in the line of duty. the park has been the site of systematic and serious human rights violations, with guerrillas committing murders, raping park residents and destroying their villages. the european union should support the congolese authorities in reforming the geological law so that it effectively protects the unique fauna and flora and that investors wishing to operate in the drc comply with national and international standards. the international community should support the country in its efforts to end the conflict in the park and prevent the oil trade from financing rebel groups. it is critical to ensure the safety of the families, the park's custodians, and the people who live there.
madam president, i am not a democrat, but if you are a democrat, you must believe that the sovereign democratic republic of congo has the right to drill for oil and for whatever it wants. the sovereign republic of hungary can introduce the death penalty or decide not to. that is democracy. that is sovereignty. i just wanted to ask how one can be wasting european taxpayers’ money on a discussion about the internal situation in the republic of congo. moreover, i think that the european union must be destroyed.
we just had a debate on hungary and it coincides with the information that the media is bringing about about some kind of european shell court that is supposed to be aimed at stripping hungary of its rights in the european union. in fact, this whole thing is even more about europe than it is about hungary. because maybe those who are here with such fanaticism attacking hungary, maybe those who are organizing these european petitions, will make the european union an intolerable place. but then you can be sure that we will not trade our freedom for any benefits, any praise, or any certificates of political correctness. you may be able to break this union. just really think about whether you want to do that, because if you do, at least it's all clear.
it is a strange coincidence that the values of the european union are the exact opposite of those of europe. in europe, the principle was that if you don't work, you don't eat. in europe, it was the rule that the murderer should be hanged. in the eu, it is the rule that the death penalty is abolished. the result is that while european values ruled, we europeans ruled the world, and today we are being colonized by nations whose values are higher than those of the union. i want to say that those who abolished the death penalty have blood on their hands - the blood of people murdered by bandits who are not afraid of death. you can murder people, but you can't murder bandits. and we have to get back to european values. i call on the union to return to europe. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed if europe is to return to greatness.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on taxes has completed the first stage of its work. i welcome the results of this work, although we are aware that the time was too short to achieve the desired effect. the problem is articulated, but there are still no clear recommendations for new solutions. we have to realize that the problem is not easy. we often have multinational corporations on one side and strong state budgetary interests on the other. the extension of the committee's work in the same composition will allow it to continue its work in a continuous manner and in accordance with the wishes of almost all political groups. i am sure that is what my group and the polish delegation in the socialist and democratic group want.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the signing of an agreement between the eu and the kingdom of liechtenstein to guarantee equal rules for economic operators, based on those already contained in council directive 2003/48/ec on tax savings. i voted in favour of this agreement because the amendments to the rules on global and european reporting standards have disrupted administrative cooperation, and in particular the exchange of financial information between tax authorities in the european union. as a member of the european parliament, i consider it extremely important that the rules on the exchange of information be consistent across the eu, especially as they guarantee tax transparency, are the focus of the fight against tax fraud and regulate and improve cooperation between the tax authorities of the member states. the citizens of my country are tired of the unsecured laws, the ineffective procedures, the exploitation of tax loopholes by the rulers and the monopolists. the citizens of poland want to live in a safe, well-governed country, and the introduction of financial transparency at eu level is also conducive to this. that's why i voted to accept this deal as a polish mp.
in writing. ‒ the council's proposed decision amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein is a further step towards making the fight against tax evasion more effective. this is particularly relevant where those actions are undertaken by natural and legal persons established in the union with the assistance of financial institutions established in third countries. the european parliament's report highlights the benefits of the decision to automatically exchange financial information from 2017. it offers an opportunity to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. it is important that this agreement enters into force as soon as possible and that the european union and liechtenstein do not delay in adopting it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of eu, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of lichtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the report is designed to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. it represents a very important step in the ongoing efforts to eliminate tax frauds and tax evasion. according to that report, the eu and lichtenstein will be able to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents. this is going to lead to addressing those situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. due to the above, i believe that this is a very useful tool in combating the tax frauds, therefore i fully support the report.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the european ombudsman launched an inquiry into the implementation by frontex of its fundamental rights responsibilities. the draft recommendations provide, inter alia, for the introduction of a mechanism for the submission and examination of individual complaints. the ombudsman's recommendations have been largely followed by frontex to date. its work has resulted in fundamental rights mechanisms such as the introduction of an incident reporting system, the development of codes of conduct, the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and the establishment of a fundamental rights office. frontex has also established a detailed procedure for dealing with internal reports of serious breaches of fundamental rights by its staff and invited officials. in addition, in the face of increasing humanitarian and legal challenges, frontex needs a mechanism to deal with individual complaints concerning alleged violations of fundamental rights. such a mechanism should be both efficient and cost-effective. frontex and the member states share responsibility for the actions of the officers involved in frontex's activities and are therefore invited to cooperate with each other in order to ensure the effective functioning of the complaints mechanism.
in writing. ‒ frontex has been in operation for over ten years, but many people are not aware of its existence. in addition, due to its lack of transparency and leadership, frontex has been criticised by numerous institutions and ngos, and more recently by the european ombudsman. as the ombudsman's report points out, there is strong evidence that frontex operations are not in line with human rights, and the current migration crisis has further highlighted this issue. among other things, many people trying to get to europe have been sent back, even though they should have been granted asylum. it is therefore important to take measures to increase the transparency of the agency, including through public access to information on the complaints mechanism in the context of the annual general report of frontex and the enhancement of the powers of the fundamental rights officer. the agency must also ensure a better balance between ethnic, national and gender diversity in its work. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the ep report and i believe that frontex will start the process of change as soon as possible in order to increase not only its effectiveness but also the degree of respect for eu fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the recommendations made by the european ombudsman in a special report on the obligations of frontex to respect fundamental rights. i believe that the european agency responsible for managing the union's external borders should create a mechanism to receive complaints about violations of the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees. this is particularly relevant today, with the growing number of humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu's external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on sustainable urban transport because it contains numerous inaccuracies and gaps in the discussion of issues important for the introduction of sustainable transport in the eu member states. the promotion of sustainable transport is important, in particular for urban agglomerations. the development of sustainable mobility can have a significant impact on improving the environment, the quality of life and health of the inhabitants of european union cities, or contribute to climate protection. such initiatives are worthy of attention and support, but when they are developed, particular attention should be paid to the disparities in the innovation performance of the eu member states' economies. in this particular report, many key issues were left unanswered or simply left out. as a member of the european parliament, i could not therefore support the vote on an incomplete report whose legal, social and economic implications for the member states had not been fully analysed.
in writing. ‒ the communication presented by the european commission and the report discussed focus on environmental and safety issues. these are undoubtedly important issues, which is why i voted in favour of the report. however, i felt that there was no reference in these documents to the impact of sustainable and well-organised public transport on improving the labour market. we must not forget that for many people, public transport is the only means of transport to get to work. the effectiveness of measures to combat poverty and social exclusion is therefore determined by the development of public transport in urban centres and suburban areas. very often, the cost of commuting to work or the time it takes to get there is a barrier to getting out of unemployment. the problem is that these links are often not seen, both at local and eu level. if we are to achieve the europe 2020 goals of increasing employment and reducing social exclusion, we need to focus more on the development of efficient and sustainable public transport. this is important because it is projected that in the near future more than 80% of europeans will live in urban areas, and that this will increase the problems already existing today.
in writing. ‒ more than four-fifths of europeans now live in urban areas, and this proportion is likely to increase in the coming years, contributing to new societal challenges related to quality of life and sustainability. unfortunately, urban mobility still relies heavily on the use of conventional vehicles, which account for around 25% of co2 emissions in the eu. to reverse this trend, both the european union and the member states should take action to increase the use of public transport, carpooling and cycling by urban dwellers. it's a great project, not just for infrastructure, but for society. transport costs must be reduced and the number of cycle paths increased. the commission should therefore seek to coordinate and consolidate eu initiatives in the field of mobility, and member states should encourage their cities to take more environmentally friendly but also economically sound actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amended report on sustainable urban mobility. sustainable urban mobility is very likely to positively influence the eu’s resource-efficiency objectives, especially the ones which are linked to the circular economy. moreover establishing a mobility strategy will offer our citizens easier access to work, school, culture, leisure and health services. the ways of achieving that are included in the report. firstly, the necessity for the european union to set targets which will help to make this sustainable urban development real for the member states. and therefore, they will ensure the regional and local cooperation between them. secondly, there is an idea to offer a part of eu funds such as cohesion funds and the erdf to boost the projects at the domestic and the eu level. this report and the possible result coming from its implementation are going to be beneficial for both our economy and our citizens.
i feel like i'm in moscow in 1970 at the comecon conference of the council for mutual economic assistance, where instead of relying on private companies, they become bureaucratic state inventions. and that's about ten percent, why not nine or eleven point three. you can tell it's some kind of artificial boundary. instead of letting private companies do what's profitable, we're leaning on some lunatics who want to impose policies to fight global warming, and who i hope will end up in a few years in prisons or lunatic asylums. i just want to say one thing. i was in crimea recently, where a group of terrorists cut off crimea's power connection to ukraine. if these same people also cut off our gas and energy connections, that's a great excuse for russia to do nord stream ii or something. we have to insist that if ukraine wants to receive money, it has to ensure the security of the transmission lines that run through its territory. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. but yes, of course, we want to have as many connections as possible, to have a market, so that energy can flow through all the possible channels, and that's simple. the only thing is that the state does not regulate this market with various artificial requirements and blocking restrictions. that's all i have to say.
i'm not going to let you do this. thank you very much for developing the energy union project. it is absolutely crucial for the energy security of europeans and also for the well-being of citizens. in parliament, for the last five years, we have called for this many times under the name of the european energy community. now we're talking about this as the energy union. it is important that we in parliament continue to have an influence on what happens, as we have for the past five years. that's why managing this project is so important. the european commission and the european parliament. the management. this is a big deal. i don't want this to be open coordination. the other thing. let's build an energy union of 36 countries, not 28. the western balkans, ukraine and moldova are implementing eu law. they're our close neighbors. they can help us, and we can help them. typical situation for a winner. and finally, it's important that we pay attention to electricity, because we've made progress in gas. the reverse flow, the new cross-border gas connections, has made a big leap forward. it's not in the electrical current yet. and one last thing. the energy union creates and sets standards. it defines what should be done in our policy and what should not be done. in particular, energy solidarity should not be undermined by projects such as the nord stream extension. this investment, like a lens, brings together all the reasons why we need the energy union so badly.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking very warmly mr marek gróbarczyk, the author of this report, because it is a very good and balanced document. mep gróbarczyk draws attention to security of supply and energy solidarity - two key dates when it comes to the energy union, and this is very important. however, the construction of nord stream 2, the increase in the capacity of nord stream, violates these basic principles of the energy union and we should not agree to this at all. i expect the commissioner to say very clearly and firmly 'no' to this project. i am addressing my colleagues who are critical of the right of states to shape their own energy baskets. do you doubt the fundamental treaties of the european union, which give each member state the right to decide on its energy basket? i would point out that decarbonization is the wrong way, it is the way to nowhere for countries that, like poland, have an 80 percent coal-based energy system. do you not think that it is worthwhile to support modern technologies such as coal gasification? is it not worth spending the juncker plan funds on this - on clean coal technologies?
the question asked by raising the blue card. you spoke of energy solidarity, and within that solidarity you spoke of decarbonisation. on the other hand, you didn't say that the nord stream project, the increase in its capacity, violates this fundamental principle of solidarity. on what basis do you argue that the treaty provisions on the right of a member state to design its own energy basket should be abandoned? the paris climate summit doesn't violate that.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i noted that part of your statement that was about gas purchases. when the energy union project came out, and it was put forward by donald tusk, who talked about joint gas purchases for the whole of the european union. what do you think of this project and would this idea not be best suited to your assessment of the principle of solidarity? because today we have a situation where poland is one of the countries that pays the most in the european union for russian gas, much more than france or germany.
mr. chairman, please! the energy union project is the proverbial one equation with three unknowns. it is not possible to ensure energy security, competitiveness and climate objectives without modifying the climate and energy package that discriminates against some countries. the law is needed to allow member states to pursue these three policy objectives independently but in solidarity, taking into account their gdp per capita. it is micro-efficiency indicators at the enterprise level and others for macro-efficiency at the level of entire member states, including transmission efficiency rather than energy constraints, that should be the tool for achieving climate objectives. the efficiency directive needs to be improved, and the ets should take into account the internal coherence between emission allowances, efficiency and the share of res so that they are promoted by increasing those allowances. administratively imposed benchmarks do not allow for such a possibility.
i also thank the absent member for the committee on budgets, mr gróbarczyk, for his report. he's a minister in the polish government at the moment, but we remember his work. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 december 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. energy security and the related diversification of energy supplies and sources, which underpin the energy union, are undoubtedly among the key issues that we should pursue with full determination. the european union is dependent on external energy supplies and unfortunately this situation is getting worse, creating the risk of energy supplies being used for political purposes. i regret to note that projects such as the nord stream gas pipeline are completely contrary to the objectives of the energy union and show a gap between rhetoric and action. i therefore believe that in these difficult times, when we need solidarity and joint action as perhaps never before, we should do our utmost to ensure that the energy security objectives of the energy union are not just words on paper, but a real roadmap for action by all member states. at the same time, i believe that while climate policy and action are undoubtedly necessary and important, it should be borne in mind that setting overly ambitious binding energy and climate targets can have negative effects and be particularly difficult for some member states to achieve.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on legal affairs concerning the position to be adopted by the council at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) (1037/1/2015 - c8-0351/2015 - 2013/0088cod)) (rapporteur: cecilia wikström) (a8-0354/2015) and recommendation for second reading on behalf of the commission with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) (trade marks and designs) (1037/1/2015 - c8-0351/2015 - 2013/0088cod)) (rapporteur: cecilia wikström) (a8-0351/2015) and the second reading on behalf of the committee on legal affairs concerning the position to be adopted by the council at second reading with a view to the european parliament and the council amending regulation amending regulation amending regulation on the drafting regulation amending council regulation of council regulation (ec) (a8/340/94 implementing council regulation (ec) (a8/4
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it took the legal affairs committee, and other members of this house, almost three years to work on this major reform, to actually make the necessary and already required changes to the trademark protection system in the european union. the final success is undoubtedly due to the enormous efforts of our rapporteur, cecilia wikström, who fought tirelessly for clearer and more transparent rules, especially for trademark owners. and this is a huge success. much has been said here about the fight against counterfeiting, but this reform brings other significant changes, such as cheaper and simpler trademark registration, a more readable register of trademarks and clear rules on refusal of registration. these are all very important issues. the most important thing is that these new common rules which have just been drawn up are effective, because if they are not effective, they will only be a half-hit. therefore, anti-counterfeiting provisions, i.e. closer cooperation between national patent offices and between those offices and the eu agency, are the key to the ultimate success of a modern and effective eu trade mark system. ladies and gentlemen! the legal affairs committee is taking a broader view of the whole issue. we're just finishing up on the trade secret protection. we're starting to work on copyright reform. all of this is insanely important in a complex picture. so much for substance, mr. chairman, but if you'll excuse me, one more point of formality. it is unacceptable that, when it has long been known that the legal affairs committee is scheduled to meet today at 7 p.m. to exchange views with commissioner jourova, the plenary session schedule does not take this into account in its calendar and at the same time plans a debate on a subject where the legal affairs committee is the lead committee. i ask that this situation never happens again.
mr. postle, you're more than a minute late for your speech. i ask that this not happen again in the future, and i will of course convey your formal remarks to my colleagues. information for all meps from hungary and poland: poland just won against hungary in the women's handball world cup with a score of 24:23.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, i have listened carefully to your remarks and to your interventions. i would like to thank all of you for your contribution to this debate. in closing, let me stress a few key points. firstly, it has to be noted that trade-mark-intensive industries contribute enormously to economic performance and employment in the eu. the agreed reform would lead to a modernised, more efficient legal framework. this will promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness; which is certainly good for europe. we will also be better equipped to fight against counterfeiting. this is essential to help reduce its detrimental effect on health, on safety and of course on innovation and growth. let me at this point also stress, and it is important to note, that the agreed compromise concerns trade marks only. it does not have any connection with patents or legal generic medicines. nevertheless, the agreed package provides for appropriate safeguards to guarantee the smooth transit of generic medicines across the union. some of you referred to this. i therefore commend this package to the european parliament and i ask you for your strong support for this. this will send a very clear signal in terms of the eu’s ability to reform in economically significant areas whilst boosting innovation and growth.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 december 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the commission, council and european parliament reached a final agreement at second reading on the trade mark reform package, which was formally approved by the plenary assembly on 14 december 2015. not only have the rules changed, but also the name of the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) has changed, which will now function as the european union intellectual property office (euipo). trade mark-based industries account for 21% of all jobs and 34% of the total gdp of the union, according to research carried out last year by ohim and the european patent office. consequently, trade marks are now one of the most important market instruments for determining the position of the goods they designate on the market. a trade mark confers on its proprietor an exclusive right enabling him to prohibit third parties from using it in the course of trade. the reform of the trademark system was aimed at modernising the current system to keep pace with a constantly evolving market for the benefit of all users, and to stimulate innovation and economic growth by increasing accessibility for businesses. in conclusion, trademarks in the 21st century should be registered quickly and without unnecessary administrative burdens, while ensuring a high quality of service and a level of legal certainty. those amendments are complementary to the efforts to ensure the coexistence and complementarity of the union and national trademark registration systems.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ecr group generally supports the european commission's initiative on trademark reform, which does not propose a new system but a targeted modernisation of existing rules. the aim of these activities is, inter alia, to align the terminology of legal acts with the treaty of lisbon, to organise cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices, and to rationalise the procedures for filing and registering community trade marks. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to a number of important issues identified by the member states which have not been fully addressed in these reports. excessive fees for appeals and for an application for revocation may be a serious obstacle to eu citizens exercising their rights in the context of trade marks. in addition, the proposal to have the procedure for challenging the non-use of an earlier trade mark before a court may be a complication for some member states, resulting in a duplication of powers with the national patent office. as regards the budget surplus of the office for harmonization in the internal market, the ecr group considers that it would be more appropriate to transfer the surplus to the national ip offices for the purposes of promoting and developing the trade mark system. the proposals i have outlined would be very helpful to businesses, especially smes, as they can improve their competitiveness and market position.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the protection of victims of terrorism (2015/3019 ((rsp)).
i understand you, but i can only repeat: catch-the eye procedure and blue-card questions only. catch-the eye procedure
madam president! although solidarity is one of the pillars of the energy union, projects such as nord stream continue to undermine this solidarity in the european union. we have repeatedly stressed that the nord stream project is a project that affects europe's energy security. today i would like to add that this project also poses a serious threat to the development of the ports of szczecin and świnoujście. the two existing nord stream pipelines are located at a depth of 16 metres, so larger vessels with a draught of more than 13,5 metres cannot enter the ports of świnoujście and szczecin. this prevents container ships and bulk carriers from being docked in świnoujście. moreover, the implementation of nord stream ii will perpetuate this situation and practically block further development of the port of szczecin and świnoujście. i therefore call on the european commission to assess the compliance of the nord stream gas pipeline with eu law, with the eu's energy objectives, including the principle of solidarity, and with the planned development of the baltic sea region's blue economy.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i welcome the communication by the commission on completing the european economic and monetary union. the document sets a very ambitious agenda for the future. it builds on the five presidents’ report and it proposes a set of measures that focus on four strategic fronts: building an economic union, a financial union, a fiscal union and a political union. i see this document as a proposal to fill the gaps that have been left in the european construction of economic governance and the gaps that have been made apparent by the recent crisis. these reforms are definitely necessary. the project is very ambitious, but it is necessary if the euro area is to survive and to flourish. it is necessary if integration and convergence are to continue to strengthen. we all know the status quo cannot continue because it is too prone to crisis. i think that the choice which is ahead of us is: either we go forward and build a genuine union, or we simply have to go back and return probably to national currencies. now, the key question here is: to what extent is this politically feasible? to what extent are all actors of this process – including this parliament and the commission, but above all the national governments – ready to go ahead under the current difficult political circumstances? this current political climate in europe is not very prone to far-reaching integration projects, but we are all convinced that this is absolutely necessary to move forward. in order to complete the emu, we all need more political ambition and more political determination. our political group is ready to cooperate on this front. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr rosati, it seems that in view of the crisis – the creeping crisis – the resilience of countries which did not adopt the common currency is greater than that of other countries. it seems that only the most powerful countries of the eurozone are able to overcome the crisis successfully. the weaker ones have to share the asymmetric portion of their sovereignty. is it true?
blue-card answer.– the resilience of individual member states of the euro area has nothing to do with the common currency, but rather with the sort of macroeconomic policies they have pursued over the last several years. we see that within the euro area there are countries that fare perfectly well – these are mostly northern countries – yet there are other countries that, as a result of irresponsible policies in the past, have got into big trouble, so this is not a question of the common currency. the common currency gives quite a lot of advantages to those countries, but what we have to pay attention to is the pursuit of reasonable domestic policies.
of all the european union's projects, economic ones, such as the common market, are among the most successful. it is good that after years of misunderstanding, we are calling the single currency a political project. i leave it to the eurogroup to assess the merits of this project, its efficiency, especially in relation to cost. it is important that all member states of the european union, irrespective of the currency they have adopted, have equal access to the common market and its benefits. all the projects prepared by the presidents should be geared to this.
madam president, the eurozone’s challenges, both its architecture and its common governance, so far based on the intergovernmental approach, are often characterised by a too far-going respect for diversity of preferences and past—dependency thinking. rules in the institutions have been under improvement, but reforms have not yet reached a critical mass. we have to make further decisive steps on the institutions and rule reforms to make the governance system effective. but before this happens, sound fiscal positions in every jurisdiction and an unprecedented level of policy coordination at eurozone level are fundamental. in 2016 we will have to prepare for the ecb’s shift towards normal monetary policy in a way that will not lead to further contraction. to make it possible for the ecb to handle the transition to higher interest rates in a successful way, there is a need to have – on the fiscal and structural policies side of the eurozone – right, timely and well-coordinated reaction. it is worth recalling that over the last years we have had a bad experience of mr draghi’s calls for action by member states not resulting in support for his efforts. we cannot afford it this time around. let us use the opportunity created by the fact that the commission has presented eurozone recommendations six months before country—specific recommendations and that there is a eurozone working programme for the first half of 2016. full use of these two vehicles can give us an effective policy coordination.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on economic and monetary union, as a non-euro country, i would like to express my doubts as to whether the ambitious intentions of the so-called five presidents' report can be implemented in a time of serious economic problems in several euro area countries. i would like to point out that the countries of the union that have used their national currencies for several years have had both higher economic growth and, consequently, lower unemployment rates than most of the countries that use the euro. it is sufficient that these countries meet the two main fiscal criteria of maastricht i.e. a public sector deficit of no more than 3% and a public debt of no more than 60% which means the stability of their public finances and, consequently, stable economic growth and declining unemployment. i am of course in favour of closer cooperation within the euro area, i.e. the creation of further financial, fiscal and political unions, but i do not think that these will solve the main problems facing a growing number of euro area countries.
madam president! it must be welcomed that further steps are being taken to stabilise and develop the situation, but, with all the positive attitude towards the document we are talking about, we must also speak out about the issues that are questionable. first, i would include among them this unfounded belief in institutional solutions: if there is a problem, you have to create an institution, if there is an institution, you have to create another. here too, we have the proposal to set up new institutions, such as the european budgetary council, but above all, i have my doubts about the proposal to set up national competitiveness councils. i'm absolutely convinced that these bodies will be completely fictitious. the second thing is the pace of change. seven years after the crisis, the proposal is for a ten-year perspective in three stages. today, it is difficult to plan for even a short period of time, let alone a long one. ten years to make a decision is, in my opinion, a long time. third, the biggest, best guarantee of economic growth and protection against crises is a healthy and fair market. we have a problem with the single market, which is infected with the virus of over-regulation and protectionism. we must fight against this, and then it will be easier for us to create an economic and monetary union too.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the arrangement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the proposal is very straightforward. switzerland has already agreed to participate voluntarily in the eu resettlement as well as the eu relocation programmes. moreover, so far, switzerland has informally participated in european asylum support office activities. therefore, adoption of this arrangement will allow both of the parties – easo and switzerland – to formalise the collaboration. taking all of the above into consideration, the proposal is just a formal tool aimed to provide us help, in order to make the resettlement and relocation easier and as painless as possible.
in writing. ‒ east timor is the first sovereign state to emerge in the 21st century. indonesia is a relatively unknown region due to the long-term occupation, and the tourist infrastructure is poorly developed. the european parliament's consent will allow for the full implementation of the agreement with east timor, under which eu citizens will not need an entry visa for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. east timor has an attractive, unspoiled nature. i believe that visa-free travel will encourage european citizens to visit and that the tourist traffic generated will have a positive impact on the development of local trade. i have no objection to the agreement in question and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's consent will allow for the full implementation of the saint lucia agreement, under which eu citizens will not need an entry visa for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. saint lucia is a country where tourism is the basis of the economy (generating about 80% of gdp). the visa waiver can therefore further encourage european tourists to visit the country and, through increased tourism, have a positive impact on local trade. even short-term visits can also help to promote business contacts. i have no objection to the agreement in question and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ a vote was held today on the report on the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust. the purpose of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the two institutions. the arrangements contained in the minutes are intended to contribute to the better performance of the tasks entrusted to them. one important provision is article 3, which states that the exchange of information or experience provided for in the protocol does not include the transmission of operational information containing data relating to a specific or an unspecified person. i welcome this provision, but i urge caution when implementing the data protection guarantee provided for in this article. the form of dispute settlement is also an important issue. the text of article 6 provides that disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the protocol are to be settled by consultation and negotiation between the representatives. this rules out third-party arbitration. this is consistent with most of these types of agreements. in the event of a serious breach of the provisions of the protocol or if it is considered that such a breach may occur, either body may temporarily suspend the application of the memorandum of understanding pending consultations and negotiations. the memorandum of understanding aims to develop strategic cooperation to help eurojust and ohim achieve their respective objectives. the minutes of the meetings in this form are in their mutual interest. as of today, it can be said that they are ready for this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ one of the key issues that the eu fisheries sector must focus on is ensuring the protection and optimal use of the environmental resources of the north-east atlantic. to this end, it was proposed to introduce the changes recommended by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) into european legislation. the proposed amendments relate to two main issues: the alignment of the port state's measures to prevent illegal fishing with the provisions of the agreement concluded with the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao) and the obligation to inform the port of destination of each vessel, even if it is outside the convention area. these actions aim to adapt eu law to the current challenges facing european fisheries, namely the need to maintain the biological balance in marine areas and to protect endangered organisms, including the highly popular atlantic cod, its close relative, the baltic cod (which is also endangered). these are necessary actions, but the question is, why is it only when we are threatened that we do so? should we not prevent the destruction of natural ecosystems rather than repair them? we must bear this in mind not only for the present state of affairs but also for future generations who may pay a heavy price for our laziness.
in writing. ‒ over the past 20 years, bosnia and herzegovina has made significant efforts to join the ranks of the world's developed, peaceful and democratic states as soon as possible. the community shall support the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, including its membership of the european union. however, this requires certain conditions to be met, including, in particular, respect for democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities. it is also important that the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina, with the support of the european commission, take decisive action to implement as swiftly and effectively as possible the provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement which entered into force on 1 june 2015. i am confident that internal reforms and close cooperation with the european union will enable bosnia and herzegovina to achieve the ambitious goals it has set itself.
in writing. ‒ the international exchange of information on terrorism and the activities of organised crime groups is crucial for the efficient functioning of the relevant services. it not only facilitates the apprehension of criminals, but also broadly defined preventive measures. the agreement between europol and the united arab emirates will allow, inter alia, the exchange of data and expertise, the organisation of training and the conduct of joint operations. its entry into force will certainly contribute to improving the security and efficiency of counter-terrorism and serious crime services. in support of europol's cooperation initiative with the united arab emirates, i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the draft council implementing decision on the agreement between europol and the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism is a very important action, especially in the context of the recent events in paris. the agreement aims to enhance the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. in a globalising world, no single state or international organisation can fight terrorism on its own. that is why it is so important that the fight against terrorism starts at the source, where radical ideas and plans for future action can be born. i am convinced that we need more agreements like the one we have with the united arab emirates. it is through such cooperation that the european union will be able to fight terrorism effectively.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative directive, for which mr marek gróbarczyk was rapporteur, is a balanced proposal. it is an attempt to show the commission and the council the best compromise without giving in to unrealistic ambitions in the field of climate protection. i fully support it and hope that it will become the basis for drafting legislative directives.
in writing. ‒ a solidarity approach to energy trade in the european union is crucial for our future. not only for the economy, for which energy price and availability are extremely important, but also for its political dimension and the eu's independence from pressure from key suppliers, including russia, on individual member states. i agree that it is extremely important to strive for greater efficiency in the use of available energy resources. the efficient management of resources guarantees a low price for the final consumer and is the way to reduce energy waste. i fully support the call to use the potential of the efsi in the process of modernising the european economy in the area of energy production and transport. if we were to vote on the text adopted by the itre committee, i would have no doubt that i would support it. unfortunately, the amendments that were proposed and adopted turned this very sensible report, which took into account the interests of all member states, into another tool for stigmatizing and pressuring, among others, poland to abandon coal as the main energy source. i do not agree with this ideologically motivated approach and the push for solutions that will result in the elimination of jobs and the increase in energy prices. once again, europe is putting its citizens' economic security at risk by taking the lead on climate commitments. i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ according to eurostat, electricity consumption per capita in kwh varies widely across the eu. commissioner cañete's statement that europe is overproducing energy is statistically correct. however, the problem is that it is not evenly distributed, and this is not only due to the lack of interconnections. cross-border connectors are not able to solve this problem completely. only future trans-european networks linking east and west will improve peak energy efficiency, and those linking north and south will make the use of res (wind in the north and solar in the south) relevant in europe. the lack of holistic grid designs pushes the vision of a real, long-term electricity market in europe ad calendas graecas. by designing reliable interconnections within the eu itself, we cannot cut ourselves off from our neighbours' energy systems. given that the interconnection of national systems is only the first, if not the most optimal, step towards eu energy solidarity, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that progress is primarily a social policy instrument, not an economic one. i believe that its target groups are well defined and that it has the potential to provide real support for the professional activation of vulnerable and socially excluded groups. unfortunately, i believe that we do not yet have reliable data on the effectiveness of the instrument so far in terms of job creation, business development and reaching out to minority groups. it is important to prepare appropriate indicators for such an assessment in the future. better evaluation possibilities will certainly provide a good basis for possible changes and for increasing the effectiveness of support. in addition, it is worth focusing in the future on increasing the effectiveness of the instrument in the area of the social economy. it is an economic sector that has a huge added value for society as a whole and is well placed to meet the europe 2020 objectives. i therefore think it is worth considering changes to the rules for the use of the instrument, such as the rapporteur's proposal to increase the ceiling for the microcredit to be used more widely to support the creation and operation of social enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility and supported amendments highlighting the value of the facility for the integration of women, migrants and refugees into the labour market. the integration of these groups into the labour market is important not only from the perspective of social cohesion and equity but also from the economic perspective. women are underrepresented in the labour market and overcoming barriers to market access requires greater flexibility, self-organisation and working hours, where microfinance instruments can be very helpful. through progress, women's professional potential, entrepreneurship, skills and talents can be developed and used in the labour market. the same applies to migrants and refugees, of whom over 15% have a university degree and a much higher percentage have business experience; each month of delay in their entry into the labour market increases the burden on member states in terms of social security and makes the situation of migrants and their families worse. i therefore support the use of this instrument to integrate refugees and migrants into the labour market, but i am against making asylum seekers the main beneficiaries of the programme, because even if the legal situation is unclear, they would not be able to use these funds properly and to act in accordance with the purpose for which the microfinance instrument was created.
in writing. ‒ the progress microfinance facility is an important financial support tool that can help lift people out of poverty and unemployment, ensuring a decent life for them. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the pilot project 'regional and regional cooperation in the field of education and culture' (regional and regional cooperation in the field of culture) and the 'regional and regional cooperation in the field of culture' (regional and regional cooperation in the field of culture). as the parliament's report indicates, thousands of eu citizens have already benefited from the instrument. it is particularly attractive to women who often have difficulties in returning to or entering the labour market. the operation of the progress instrument is not without its shortcomings, which are largely due to the complexity of the granting procedures, the lack of flexibility and the low level of coordination between the instrument and the union funds. however, this instrument should be seen as a success for the eu and its accessibility should be even wider, which is why i voted in favour of the ep report.
madam president! the idea of protecting external borders was born in 2001. after 14 years, anyone who wants to come to europe and import what they want is already making us look ridiculous enough and something has to be done about it. and now we're being offered a three-step solution, where the third step is to create a whole new agency. if we do this, in the next 15 years, two billion people will come to this europe, and then we will close the borders so that they cannot leave. and this is supposed to be saving europe from an alien invasion? we are the nail in the coffin of europe, and we must see this: either we defend ourselves or we dissolve, and each country must defend itself, because that is why borders are there, to protect them, not to be ridiculed and compromised here. we really need to do something very quickly, not wait until it's too late, because time is moving dramatically fast and it's playing against us.
the answer to the question posed by tomasz zdechowski's raising of the blue card. i'm not criticizing the will to save ourselves from the calamity that is coming, i'm just criticizing laziness and inefficiency, because this laziness and inefficiency is catastrophic. if we wait another 15 years, we'll be trampled and beaten to death here, and then we're supposed to close the borders to keep these people out? that would just be ridiculous. we need to defend ourselves now, because we have a problem now, not wait another dozen years.
madam president, we need better organised management of the security of our external european borders. if we want to tackle the problem of the refugee crisis and if we want to keep the schengen solution, we have to overcome real barriers – the lack of cooperation among countries and the big deficit in data sharing. because of terrorism we need more preventive actions, some of them on external smart borders, but this requires cooperation, common standards and procedures, and coordinated leadership in emergency cases even without member states’ requests. so the concept of strengthening frontex by establishing a new model of its capability, a new role for the special groups of guards, the coast guard package and the new competences of the agency, is a very good idea and an opportunity – rather than a restriction – for national services. member states’ independence and national security is not threatened by being more open to european coordination. it would be unreasonable to interpret it in this way. for the sake of our citizens’ security and safety we have to do this transparently, in agreement with member states.
madam president! of course, in the face of the dilemma between schengen and strengthening the external border, it is better to strengthen the external borders of the union. it is therefore good that the european border guard will only be activated in exceptional situations of danger and when a country is in a situation where it cannot cope with the problem on its own. however, as today's debate shows, the question arises as to whether the community border guard action will be launched at the request of or with the consent of a state threatened by large waves of migration or whether it will be launched by an autonomous decision of the commission. the commissioner said that the commission, in cooperation with the member state, would determine when the situation required urgent intervention and that the agency's decisions would be binding on the member state. i therefore ask you to answer the question: how will the commission or the agency react if there is neither a request nor an agreement from a member state to deploy a community border guard in the event of an emergency? will the commission intervene in the absence of such consent and how will it do so in practice?
in writing. i have repeatedly advocated strengthening the external borders of the european union. i made this point in the european parliament when brussels and other capitals were talking about the need to open the borders to the wave of refugees, which, as we all know today, includes not only economic migrants but also terrorists. i have no doubt that frontex needs to be strengthened. not just financially. all member states should also support the schengen frontline countries most burdened by the need to stem the uncontrolled flow of refugees. i voted to increase funding for frontex. polish border guard is helping their colleagues in hungary. of course, more must be done. the commissioners have made some sensible proposals today. i do not agree, however, that the solution to the schengen crisis is to set up a federalised service. europe needs secure and secure borders. but we cannot say that the only solution to every crisis is 'more europe' and the transfer of responsibilities to the european level. the proposal to provide for the possibility of deploying services on the territory of a member state against its will solely on the basis of decisions taken at official level is, in my view, unacceptable.
in writing. there is no doubt that the external borders of the european union need to be better protected. the european union cannot be defenseless against the growing wave of immigrants, some of whom have no grounds for obtaining permission to stay in europe. the problem is that today the borders of some countries, such as greece and the balkan countries, are full of holes. these countries should receive urgent assistance from the european union. i therefore consider it appropriate to transform frontex into the european border and coast guard agency. however, the agency cannot rely solely on the support of individual eu countries. it must have real instruments of operation, which requires its expansion, with at least 2 thousand people and equipped with its own special equipment, such as surveillance planes, vehicles, equipment for identifying people. i would stress this point very strongly, that there is no need to create another eu institution whose objectives are right, but which has no real capacity to function effectively. let us therefore create a european border and coast guard agency as a real, rapid and effective instrument for protecting the external borders of the european union.
madam president! i welcome the paris agreement with a certain degree of optimism as a victory for pragmatism over ideology. it welcomes the recognition of the role of forests as natural carbon sinks. i believe it is time for the european union to take seriously the role of forests and land management in climate policy. i would point out that the european union's funding for afforestation has been very low so far. the paris agreement also happened because the word "decarbonisation" was not in the final text, and that's a good thing, because every country has the right to decide on its own energy basket. i think it's worth investing in low-carbon, clean coal technologies.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner. this is the first time in history that developing and developed countries have joined their forces to protect climate change – not only well below 2°c, but even 1.5°c above pre—industrial level. we have managed to build climate change awareness and we, the global community, prefer to prevent the damage instead of adapting ourselves. it is a real great success. but there are some weaknesses too. the first one: when we sum up intended nationally determined contributions there is the risk that the temperature rise will be closer to 3°c. everyone declares themselves to be ready to save the climate but only very, very few, like the eu, are ready to act. secondly, it remains to be seen whether these, very often voluntary, declarations will be kept. the agreement is based only on constant monitoring and control, as well as revision every five years. third point: it has to be ratified in future by the 55 countries responsible for 55% of emissions. it did not work out with kyoto. will it now? i am very convinced, as are our scientists, by the whole idea of climate protection. but let us be honest: it is quite obvious that in our fight against the global warming we, the eu, are still almost alone. so it is an important signal to our industry, and we should be as active as before in the coming years.
mr. chairman, please! the agreement is impressive because it's a global agreement: 196 countries. i think that you, commissioner cañete, played a very important role in that and i should like to thank you for that. this is a good step towards climate protection, but it also creates a whole new reality and rules for how individual economies can calculate the costs of climate and energy policy and the economy as a whole. the climate agreement is about reducing emissions. i welcome this, because decarbonising the economy does not have to mean low emissions, which is the effect we want to achieve. already during the polish presidency of the council of the european union, we talked about a "low-emission economy", not a "low-carbon economy". our minister of economy spoke about it. this was also reflected in the programme documents of the european people's party, which introduced the term. now, with the eu as the leader, we should align our policies with this agreement, but only if the partners in this agreement are firmly involved in the process of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement.
mr. chairman, please! we teach chinese here, and it was particularly humorous in what mr. schmit said. well, i suggest that mr. schmit see what paris looked like 30 years ago and what it looks like now, and compare shanghai 30 years ago and see what shanghai looks like now. we should learn from china, not the chinese from us. we should be the ones to implement their solutions. and i'll give you a drastic example, and i read in the report in paragraph h that china's family planning policy has led to a rapid aging of the chinese population, and over 200 million chinese are over 60. well, mr. schmit, the average chinese woman has 1.5 children, and the average european woman has 1.2. the european union is much better at destroying its own society than mao tse-tung and that is why i think the european union must be destroyed. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. we have to adopt chinese methods in some matters. we don't have a tibetan minority, and if we did, there would be no lamas who believe in lamaism. there would be no uighurs either, because they would have melted into our society. i don't know what's worse for tibetans: being in europe or being in china. anyway, they're not running away from china, and i want you to understand that if we don't have the death penalty, for example, that's going back 4,000 years, and china has the death penalty, and that's what makes the society modern.
mr. chairman, please! the fact is that china is not a democracy; india is still the world's largest democracy. this is a country which certainly cannot be a model of standards, although of course we can admire the very rapid economic progress, and we, while not renouncing economic cooperation, and indeed, betting on it, should not be an ostrich that hides its head in the sand and we should also talk about what we do not like, because this is a matter not only of european standards, but also of certain humanitarian and global standards. and for me, the important thing is whether this country, which has little to do with democracy, wants to work with the west, with us, or with other undemocratic systems. if he does the latter, i'll be very skeptical of him.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. communist china is changing, but is it changing its essence? the one-child policy, or i should remind you, including the abortive rape of mothers in the last days before birth, has now been replaced by the two-child policy, which is the brutal economic persecution of marriages and families who want to adopt more children. why is europe silent in the face of such an attack on the most basic of human rights, the right to parenthood?
madam president! i too would like to congratulate mr enrique guerrero saloma on his excellent report. the world humanitarian summit will be the perfect opportunity to exchange views and take bold action to prevent conflict and improve the situation of people living in conflict areas. the middle east, the war in syria, the situation in african countries, and the natural disasters caused by climate change are just some of the crises that the international community faces. coordinate the actions of the international community to increase the effectiveness of humanitarian aid. the safety of humanitarian workers is also an important issue. in 2014 alone, more than 300 of them were killed, abducted or injured. therefore, solutions should be developed to improve their status and enable them to work in the best possible conditions. the world humanitarian summit must be the political impetus to increase the effectiveness of this aid and ensure that, together with development instruments, it has the chance to guarantee the stability of states and the resilience of societies to future conflicts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. nobel peace prize winner mother teresa of calcutta once said that the killing of the unborn is the greatest threat to world peace. it is worth recalling these words on the eve of our vote on a document which, as one of the mandates of humanity, presents us with, and i quote, 'access to abortion'. there are many children in the world whose political authorities wished they were never born, including children in this room who were wished to be born. and it's worth remembering that when we vote on this report.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. freedom of movement and of employment in the european union is one of the union's most precious values, and it is also important in the economic sphere. we know that this is a matter of competitiveness and reducing unemployment. commissioner, we just need this package. the barriers to mobility are already more or less known, and on that basis we know what needs to be done. i believe that investing in good, free or low-cost language courses for workers, speeding up the implementation of the european qualifications framework and the recognition of qualifications across the european union, developing and improving the operation of eures, but above all implementing the directive on the posting of workers, is essential. it should not be opened, it does not need to be opened, because it has just been amended, it simply needs to be implemented, and it is necessary to examine the relationship between this directive and other legal acts important for mobility, such as the directive on temporary employment agencies. of course, we still have a huge challenge ahead of us, which is the coordination of social security systems. i wanted to ask you, commissioner, how things are going in this area, what has happened with regard to the question of social security systems, and i wanted to ask you whether you think that a european observatory on migration should be set up to look at the behaviour of immigrants on the labour market, both those from member states and from third countries, both those legally in the european union and those who are irregular.
the question asked by raising the blue card. in 1933, lichtenstein refused to join the third reich. i understand that being attached to the third reich would make him much more powerful and have much greater opportunities. at the moment, liechtenstein has not joined the european union. i understand that he's having a terrible time paying for his energy bill right now and there's a terrible poverty in this country. are you advising lichtenstein to join the european union?
we've developed a strategy to deal with this. however, its implementation is still delayed. this is a quote from president tusk's letter inviting you to the european council. there are many sensible proposals on its agenda, such as the pnr, but i do not include the draft for a european border and coast guard in that collection. this project violates the constitutional foundations of several countries. it is also questionable in the light of the primary law of the european union. the extension of the community method in the extremely sensitive and crucial area of security will not replace solidarity between states. and it is the member states that are responsible for security.
mr president, as the eu council will address the issue of the energy union, i would like to quote the epp group position on the matter, adopted unanimously in our recent strategic position paper on the external dimension of energy security. i quote: ‘we, the epp group, believe that the nord stream 2 agreement is not in line with the eu strategy of diversification of sources of supply and routes of transit of imported energy, as well as the eu’s energy security strategy and foreign security and eastern partnership policy goals, reinforcing the eu’s dependency on russian gas supply’. my comment is this: nord stream 2 is being pursued by the commission as a purely commercial project. my question is: if a project is negotiated in person by the president of russia, putin, and the vice-chancellor of a member state, is such a project purely a commercial one? the commission considers that nord stream requires only a legal analysis. this is fundamentally wrong; it is a geopolitical project that can be detrimental to our security. it contradicts the energy security strategy, the energy union itself, and the foundations of our foreign security eastern neighbourhood partnership policy goals. it is in breach of european solidarity and against the spirit of the sanctions on russia; it is harmful to the interests of ukraine, belarus, poland and slovakia; and it can be a political game-changer, reinforcing the power position of one single gas supplier, reinforcing the union’s dependence, and further exposing eastern member states and their eastern neighbours to russia’s pressure and blackmail. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– on energy policy, we think that the hungarian government is not in line with epp priorities, both in terms of its atomic enterprise deal with russia, and also in terms of its general line on russia. but this does not concern the issue which i raised, which is nord stream 2.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam mep, most politicians, including the president of the european council, donald tusk, believe that the system of relocation based on top-up quotas is outdated, and you insist on this solution did i understand you correctly? is it not better to look for more flexible forms with the agreement of the states, which will bring about a real result, rather than insisting on a solution that has proved to be completely inadequate to reality and non-functional?
mr. chairman, we're at a very serious juncture. there's no need to hide it. i think that we must find a healthy compromise between what the majority of the countries in the union want and what the minority is prepared to do, and that is what some people have already said here. let us make decisions that will be accepted by governments and societies, and i emphasize the societies of the member states, especially those countries that have never had colonies and that today have to pay interest on this. and if we are talking about european solidarity, let us speak about it broadly, including in the context of energy policy. i get the feeling there's a double standard here. there is solidarity in the union. yes, we talk about it when it comes to immigrants and refugees, but we don't want to talk about it in the context of, for example, nord stream and the second strand of nord stream.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has adopted, by means of an implementing act, a list of invasive alien species of union concern. this list will be fully binding and directly applicable in all member states, which is why it is so important that both the development process and the list itself are thoughtful, comprehensive and include those species that actually pose a danger to the ecosystem and the inhabitants of europe. it is also important that dangerous species are listed after a sound risk assessment and not arbitrarily or sometimes even at random. unfortunately, the european commission has not fully complied with all the guidelines mentioned above. i therefore supported the ep's position that the european commission had exceeded its implementing powers and should withdraw its proposal and submit a new draft implementing regulation.
in writing. eur 50150 billion is lost annually by member states as a result of aggressive tax practices by certain companies. differences in taxation rules, different practices in relations with third countries and other activities that benefit only a few or a dozen multinational corporations are important issues from the point of view of the need for member states to ensure adequate budgetary revenues. it should be stressed that tax avoidance both distorts competition and creates an unfair legal environment for taxpayers. the european parliament has therefore called for action to stop tax fraud in the eu. it should be stressed, however, that any changes must be duly balanced and must in no case be contrary to the fundamental principle of the sovereignty of each member state in shaping its own tax policy.
in writing. ‒ this year marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the european union and china. our relations have never been so dynamic; they are present on all fronts: political, economic, social, scientific. this strategic partnership is now moving to the next level. the eu and the us will continue to work together to achieve the goals of the paris agreement, including the establishment of a new global climate regime, the establishment of a new international climate regime, and the establishment of a new international climate regime. the european parliament's report underlined the importance of china to the european union and also appropriately highlighted the consequences of the internal and external changes currently taking place in the country, such as the slowdown in economic growth, the 2015 stock market crash, the liberalisation of the country and the dynamic arms policy. in addition, the report stressed the importance of better coordination of eu member states' actions in relations with china, as well as better coordination between the union and china in areas of global strategic importance. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the ep report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between the european union and the prc is undoubtedly one of the strategic areas of our common foreign policy. both the economic partnership and the political relationship with beijing are of great importance to us. but our approach to these relationships cannot be one-sided, and must take into account the challenges that exist, including human rights, alongside the enormous economic opportunities. the resolution adopted today balances these issues well and highlights the key opportunities and challenges facing us and our chinese partners in the years ahead, which is why i voted in favour of it. the possibilities for cooperation in the field of infrastructure construction and the creation of the new silk road are particularly exciting. this project of connecting asia and europe is a 21st century investment that will bring many benefits to both sides. central europe could particularly benefit from this project, and poland, as a natural meeting place for east and west for centuries, could be an excellent logistical base for this venture. no one today doubts that china is now a world power that plays a key role in the international order. but with this power comes responsibility for the fate of the world. beijing's voice in addressing the most pressing issues should be heard more and support efforts to build peace, especially in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ in a report on the preparation of the humanitarian summit and the challenges and opportunities of humanitarian aid, i voted for the recognition of women's reproductive rights and for access to a full range of reproductive services, including legal and safe abortion. in humanitarian crises, such as armed conflicts, mass rapes of women and even children are common, and rape is used as a weapon of war. the ban on abortion, which has arisen in such circumstances, means that women are forced to give birth to children whose fathers are soldiers of the enemy army, often torturers and murderers of those women's immediate family or immediate surroundings. even the most restrictive legislation, such as the polish anti-abortion law, allows abortion if the pregnancy is the result of rape. it would be inhumane to deny this right to women who were raped during the war. lacking access to legal, safe abortion, desperate women are left without doctors, resulting in health and even life loss. according to who, illegal abortion is one of the leading causes of female death in countries with humanitarian crises, and therefore it is the duty of aid workers to rescue women who are victims of rape as a weapon of war.
in writing. ‒ we are living in very challenging times rapid population growth, demographic change, natural disasters, migration, regional conflicts and climate change have dramatically increased the need for humanitarian aid worldwide. the first world humanitarian summit, to be held in istanbul next year, will be a great opportunity for the international community to look at the problems and find the most effective solutions. sadly, every year the funds allocated to humanitarian causes dwindle, and many countries, despite improving their own economic situation, are not willing to help other countries or people in need. it therefore seems appropriate that the european parliament's call for greater coordination and integration of the global humanitarian system be taken into account at this summit. the report also rightly points to the need to continue the dialogue on the complementary roles and mandates of the various humanitarian organisations and even individual countries. unfortunately, the document contains many very ideological provisions which may make it difficult to implement the ep's resolutions. moreover, the extremely wide range of issues covered in the report makes it difficult to identify clear priorities. as a result, i have decided to vote against its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i congratulate the rapporteur. he pointed to the conditions for the sustainable development of the european metallurgy. it assumed irrefutably that the cost of co2 emission allowances threatened to shock competition and to move energy-intensive material sectors out of europe. as this concerns the basic building materials, especially steel, it threatens to de-industrialise europe, to lose the technological expertise and the skilled workers it has acquired, and to abandon advanced scientific research. i agree with the rapporteur that real energy efficiency gains are essential to decarbonisation. the commission has proposed that the prices of imported steel products be adjusted to take account of the ecological dumping at the union frontier, which is an interesting and worthy of consideration, since the current compensation is a source of unequal competition. i would caution the commission against assuming that scrap metal processing can completely replace primary metallurgy. this is a mistake. it is important to bear in mind that the highest value-added steel is produced in a full cycle and that the contamination of such steel is increasing with hard-to-remove impurities, including copper.
madam president! europe is in a deep crisis, it is pointless to enumerate all its manifestations from the prospect of british secession to the greek crisis to the thousands of volunteers pouring out of europe to join the forces of the islamic state and in this situation the leaders of the european parliament have no greater concern than attacking the democratic decisions of the hungarian people. i would like to invite everyone to reflect on just one point: the first day that article 7 of the treaty of lisbon is invoked (although paragraph 9 of that text leaves this perspective unchanged) will be the beginning of the end of the european union. i want you all to think about whether this is what you really want.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft resolution on the situation in hungary: follow-up to the european parliament's resolution of 10 june 2015 because i believe that the situation in hungary does not justify the european parliament's interference in its internal affairs.
in writing. ‒ the stigmatisation of member states and the censorship of the actions of a democratically elected government is a very bad practice and an action that cannot be justified. the institutions of the european union, financed by taxpayers' money, cannot be used as a tool to discipline those countries which express legitimate doubts about european federalism. this resolution is not only bad in its content, but it is bad because it is proof that the european parliament is trying to usurp the right to discipline and review the policies of democratically elected authorities. this is not in keeping with the treaties or the spirit of the model of european integration we have adopted. i would like to emphasize that any such action and any attempt to transfer the discussion of the internal affairs of sovereign states to the european forum will result in a further decline in trust in the european institutions. we already know that the ep plans to take similar steps towards poland and review the reforms that the new polish government is implementing. such action must be opposed because it violates the principle of sovereignty, which is a fundamental value for countries that have freed themselves from the yoke of communism. i would like to reassure our european partners that neither in hungary nor in poland does the political situation require intervention at eu level and the adoption of similar resolutions. i voted against the adoption of this text, of course.
the next item is the report by mr cristiana dan preda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the eu's policy on the matter (2015/2229 (ini)) (a8-0344/2015).
the next speaker is the third speaker, but the second from romania – it is romanian domination here this afternoon! – on behalf of the committee on development.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's ceremony of awarding the sakharov prize to mr raif badawi, or rather to his wife, haidar, was a powerful demonstration of our european parliament strong commitment to human rights. i also thank my colleague, mr christian dan preda, for continuing on this path of annual and multi-dimensional reports on human rights in the world. i would like to point out that the main objective of the reports is to ensure consistency between the union's internal and external policies on respect for human rights and democratic values, which is why we attach such importance to this cooperation between the european institutions and their delegations abroad, so that all these institutions speak with one coherent voice. i would like to welcome the adoption of a new human rights action plan for 2019. adopting these five strategic areas is a renewed commitment to a systematic and focused approach to human rights and democracy. i also wish to emphasise with appreciation the human rights dialogue with third countries. it is an important tool that not only allows for engagement and cooperation in the promotion of human rights, but also for significant change in many member countries. i would like to thank mr stavros lambrinidis for mentioning a number of countries at the meeting of the subcommittee on human rights, where important progress was made. i would like to stress the importance of the issue of freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief. it remains a constant challenge. many minorities, especially christians in the middle east, in many places around the world are being persecuted, injured, tortured and killed, and their meeting places, not only of christians but of many other religious minorities, are being destroyed. i would like to remind you that the right to religion is a fundamental human right recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, which is guaranteed by the international covenant on civil and political rights.
do you accept a blue card from mr lucke?
the prefect of the congregation for the doctrine of the faith, cardinal gerhard ludwig müller, is in the tribune. welcome, monseigneur.
mr president, i really appreciate the work of mr preda, but i have to mention two important issues that are missing in the report. firstly, there is iran. despite the deal, we have to mention one of the most oppressive governments in the world and its activities in terms of human rights. hopefully, it is not linked with the recent the visit of president schulz to tehran and his intention to intensify dialogue. secondly, there is crimea. it is obvious that more than 60 international and national human rights laws were violated after the annexation of crimea. it was a matter of complaint by minorities of various types, both national and religious minorities. it has to be taken into account.
the annual human rights report unfortunately continues the practice of exporting the revolution. we want to impose on the world laws that robert schuman, konrad adenauer and alcide de gasperi would not even be able to imagine. the sovereignty of states is not above natural justice, but is part of it. it is the law of nations. the european union's funding of abortion compromises our policy. and since the vast majority of our countries are abortion states, i think we should write a human rights report on our own country first.
mr. chairman, please! the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter has been produced on behalf of our parliament. it is a rather large document, almost 40 pages long, but i see a serious imbalance in the thematic proportions. the issue of all forms of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is discussed many times and in different ways. when calling for non-discrimination, lgbti people are mentioned first. these issues are addressed in, inter alia, paragraphs 4, 37, 48, 91, 98, 108, 111 and paragraphs 92 and 93 are subtitled 'lgbti rights'. the author of the document escapes the discrimination and persecution of christians around the world, who according to open doors are the most persecuted religious group in the world. in this document, as if by a half-sponge, it is mentioned only once in paragraph 82. considering the entire document, it's more than asymmetry. and because of that, i think, not just the tory mps, but... (the president cut the speaker off)
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam president, i think you have very biasedly and untruthfully presented the president of the european council's words that he is proposing some draconian procedure. so if you don't like the proposal of the president of the european council, what procedure do you propose? after all, no one will accept that all immigrants are automatically accepted and qualified as refugees. what is your proposal for a secure europe?
mr. chairman, please! i think that some of my colleagues, when they talk about the law, they mean anarchy, and in their admirable idealism, they lose their sense of reality. but i would like to ask the representatives of the council, the commission and the honourable members how they envisage a relocation mechanism without the element of coercion, when the compulsory fingerprinting and the detention of refugees in isolation centres are also criticised here in this chamber. resettlement would not be possible without the use of coercion, refugees would have to be forcibly transported from one country to another, and held in countries they did not intend to live in, because, as we all know, they seek and choose a certain type of country. they don't want to live in bulgaria, poland, lithuania, only in sweden and germany.
mr. chairman, please! the former high representative of the international community, lord ashton, said that the dayton agreement was great for ending the war, but it was bad for building a functioning state. i would add that it is a country that heals wounds, overcomes ethnic divisions, meets the challenge of territorial disintegration, implements a programme of reforms, including constitutional reform. the european union must help bosnia and herzegovina along this path. the prospect of membership is an incentive. i see a light at the end of the tunnel in the agreement signed this year, under which bosnia and herzegovina will already provide assistance to the european union in the csdp mission. this is a big change.
madam president! the dayton accords are a bit like the constitution - they're good, they've been around for years, but at some point they have to be changed - and of course we have to look to the future, not talk about the breakthrough of two decades ago. my colleague mrs. fajon quoted such beautiful words here that if we do nothing, there will be war. let me put it this way: if we do something stupid or we do something too slow, there will be war, too. it's about doing something smart. i think it's very hard to say that while supporting bosnia and herzegovina, we should also look at how this country is supported by other countries, for example, islamic countries, which export radical imams and build mosques. this is of course a danger, and it is also something that should be known and talked about.
madam president, the dayton agreement ended the bloodiest armed conflict in post—war europe. however, bosnia and herzegovina, inhabited by free constituent peoples, is still facing many political, economic and social problems. is the dayton agreement still meeting expectations after 20 years? there is no single answer to this question. the political system of bosnia and herzegovina, which was intended to ensure the coexistence and mutual respect of free constituent peoples, maintains divisions within the country and hinders effective governance. the economic situation is severe. according to estimates, unemployment ranges from 27% to as much as about 50% and among young people aged between 15 and 24, the figure is about 60%. oversight and public administration absorbs up to 40% of gdp. the economic situation of the population deteriorated dramatically last year after the biggest flood in a century, which affected the whole of the balkans. in bosnia and herzegovina alone over 100 000 houses were destroyed. society wants change and does not accept the status quo. this was shown by last year’s demonstrations. in this context, i welcome the agreement between the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina negotiating with the european union. social and economic reforms that bring bosnia and herzegovina closer to europe must be carried out. on constitutional arrangements, the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina should be encouraged to find solutions that will end discrimination and guarantee equal rights to all free constituent peoples and all citizens.
in writing. the dayton peace agreement, signed in paris on 14 december 1995, brought an end to a conflict that had killed 250,000 people, displaced more than 2 million people and seriously threatened the stability of europe. after weeks of difficult negotiations, a compromise was reached, which today is heavily criticized. the situation in the territory of bosnia and herzegovina remains politically unstable. hopes for a prosperous society free of ethnic tensions are fading. in addition, the balkans are facing a new crisis with a wave of refugees heading towards europe. in conclusion, the system created by the peace agreement does not seem to work. we can't just be uncritical of our own actions. especially since criticism is often justified. but despite the shortcomings, it's worth noting that in a 2013 ipsos survey, in each of the three main ethnic groups - bosniaks, croats and serbs - a majority would vote for the dayton agreement again today. the bosnian people accepted it as the best compromise possible. so even if this compromise is not perfect, after 20 years we can say that without the dayton agreement there would have been no peace in the territory of the former yugoslavia. continue to support bosnia and herzegovina's efforts to join nato and integrate with the european union and continue the economic and constitutional reforms it has initiated.
madam president! i'm pleased to note that ms. valero's report was not consulted with the pacifists, nor with the salvation army. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the commission's proposal. how many russian, chinese and pakistani companies have you gotten your hands on that you've done an act that's supposed to affect the european arms industry? of course, that's not true. you're doing this out of your own stupidity. you write that you want human rights to be respected and that you want to check the end recipients of your weapons. i understand you'll be checking to see if half your guns are used by women and half by men in accordance with the principle of equal rights. this is such a scandal, such a destruction of our industry, that it just takes my breath away and i'm done. and i also believe that the european union must be destroyed if the nations of europe are to survive.
madam president! i'll start with the general assessment, which unfortunately is not positive, and there is a fairly broad consensus. i would like to emphasise that the report for the years 2013-2014 which is the source of this report is a report describing above all the mechanisms and processes that take place in the relationship between the legal and the allegedly legal distributor. i am also very interested in all the matters relating to the countries to which the weapons are to be sent, because this means that we are dealing with a very crucial element at the moment, namely the credibility of this effect of the arms being transported from europe to the outside. i would like to emphasize, however, that the general belief, which very often prevails, that tightening up the criteria here in europe, both in terms of licensing, in terms of authorization for distribution, in terms of controlling the country of destination of transport, will lead to an increase in safety is in fact a certain naiveté. europe today has a gigantic problem of its own with the ease of access to conventional weapons that can be bought online, that can be assembled. and of course, we're dealing with access to these weapons not from licensed gun owners or license applicants, but very often from complete amateurs who are involved in this distribution of guns. therefore, those citizens who are law-abiding, law-abiding, have no access to these weapons. everyone else has easy access to guns, and that's worth talking about. the giant business of the conventional arms trade must finally meet the security business, because the security of europe, the security of individual citizens, is also an economic value and we must remember this. finally, i would like to stress that further tightening of export criteria, if it is to make sense, must go hand in hand with strengthening internal controls, the distribution of arms and the financial strengthening of those institutions which control the possession of arms in europe.
madam president! well, i wanted to say thank you very much. i would like to point out that there are two problems worth noting in this debate. first, the fact that arms export control is an integral part of the eu's security policy. if so, the european external action service must have real instruments to control arms exports. it's not just about controlling the permits that are issued, but it's about controlling where the weapons actually go and how far they go. and the second problem is that we need to finally create a list of products that are dual-use, civilian and military. the lack of such a list today leads to the circumvention of various prohibitions. i think this is a matter of great urgency.
mr. chairman, please! according to open doors, a nonprofit that studies anti-christian persecution, vietnam is the worst country for christians than communist china, mali, qatar, or egypt. many of us who remember communism are familiar with these methods: permanent surveillance, punishing people for demanding their rights, such as the return of seized property, propaganda campaigns that incite anti-christian populism. what can we do about it? first of all, to monitor the situation and show the vietnamese christians that their situation is important to us. to show the vietnamese authorities that the situation of christians in their country is important to us and therefore it is a pity that we have said so little about it in our debate, it is a pity that so little comment on the subject has been in the relevant report.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the question posed by two european parliament committees is of strategic importance for progress, development and innovation in the agricultural sector. it concerns patent problems in the area of biological progress, and so in an area where the laws of nature are very important. you've all received this question, so i won't read it here. let me make a few comments on my own. agriculture is characterised by a specific production process, because in the production process we are dealing with living organisms of plants and animals. it is therefore right that the farmers' representative, copa-cogeca, in his statement to parliament, points out that patent rights originating in the industrial technology sector are difficult to transfer to biological processes. nature, plants, existing genetic material are not inventions after all. patenting plant traits will not only limit innovation but will also increase the administrative and cost burden of inventiveness. the main concerns concern restricting access to the patented biological material in the plant breeding process, as the new value obtained in improving the quality of plants should become a common good. however, the financing of agricultural progress must be remembered and taken into account if we want its effects to be a common value. our expectations of the european commission place upon it the extremely difficult task of reconciling different interests. but we believe that food security, the preservation of biodiversity, the possibility for farmers to access and choose certain varieties are their rights. we want to maintain the work of small and medium-sized farmers so that they are not pushed out of the industry by the big companies in the sector. in conclusion, we therefore want the european commission to clarify the legal situation regarding patent cases in the area of plant breeding.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! i would like to remind you that not so long ago, in 2012, the european parliament adopted a resolution in which it expressed its position in a very clear and precise way on the interpretation of the provisions of both the european patent convention and the so-called biopatent directive. in 2012, which is three years ago, it's worth remembering what was written there. the directive is clear: plant and animal varieties, as well as purely biological processes for the production of plants and animals, such as by crossing or selection, are excluded from patentability. that's a pretty clear and precise word, which is why it's hard to understand the decision of the board of appeal of the european patent office. i would point out that it was the board of appeal, a court of law, and not the patent office, that made this decision - a decision that raises our concerns about the narrow interpretation of existing legislation, which could, in turn, compromise the maintenance of the widest possible biological diversity. the breeders also express serious concern that this opens a back door to the patenting of plant varieties and, consequently, to the limitation of access to improved crop yields. we therefore ask the european commission to clarify the interpretation of eu legislation and to provide us with information on the report on the development of the impact of patent law on biotechnological activities.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad to see that there is a general consensus in this house on the need for a strict ban on the patenting of plant and animal varieties. man is not the inventor of life and has no right to patent living organisms. it's against progress, it's hindering the natural development of agriculture. patenting also means that food safety would be in the hands of biotechnology companies, that we, all farmers, but also all consumers, would be hostages to these companies. it is not safe, it is not the right way, and it is good that the european parliament is strongly opposed to this practice of patenting living organisms. that is why i support the joint, very good draft resolution. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i am of the consistent view that any restrictions that apply to producers in europe should be required of those who export their products to the european market and that we should therefore seek to establish a uniform rule in this respect. we don't import products that can't be made in europe. that's the rule we should follow.
ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that we are unanimous in opposing the patenting of plant and animal varieties. the european parliament already made a clear statement on this issue in 2012. however, recent decisions to patent plants have raised the question of whose interest it is to patent plant and animal varieties. who bends the law to make a profit? i think that the european parliament and the commission should defend the rights of farmers and livestock farmers. article 4 of the directive clearly states that the granting of patents on plant and animal varieties is excluded, and i therefore call on the commission to react quickly and effectively to this matter, because that is what we are called upon to do to defend the rights of farmers and breeders.
mr. chairman, please! ibrahim halawa was 17 years old when he was convicted, along with 494 others, of attacking national security forces during protests in cairo. he's facing the death penalty. in recent years, the number of death sentences in egypt has increased significantly. twelve people have been executed this year. halawa has exercised his democratic right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. his trial was postponed several times. after the last such ruling, this young man went on a hunger strike. he and the other defendants are entitled to a fair, open and impartial trial in accordance with international standards. he was also restricted from receiving correspondence in english. there are suspicions that he may have been tortured. i call on the egyptian authorities to stop the widespread violation of human rights, to acquit ibrahim halawa, a citizen of the european union. egypt must also ratify the 1986 convention against torture and abolish the death penalty.
mr. chairman, please! the human rights situation in egypt is a matter of great concern to the international community. egyptian authorities ignore basic civil liberties, including the right to assembly, protest, and freedom of speech. irish teenager ibrahim halawa has been held in a cairo prison for more than two years, and is one of 500 other prisoners of conscience. he's facing the death penalty. officially, the process cannot begin for organizational and logistical reasons. no courtroom in egypt can accommodate the record number of defendants. on the day of his arrest in august 2013, the military and police stormed the mosque in ramesses square where several hundred protesters had taken refuge, killing 97 people and arresting the rest. condemning the restriction on the right to freedom of association and expression, we call on the egyptian authorities to release immediately all prisoners convicted for fighting for civil and political freedoms. according to article 10 of the universal declaration of human rights, everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal. in egypt, there is still a lack of respect for this principle.
in writing.– the case of mr ibrahim halawa is considered to be in breach of both international law and human rights. mr halawa is potentially facing the death penalty. according to the egyptian authorities mr ibrahim halawa, who is an irish and egyptian citizen, is guilty of exercising violence and direct involvement in killing several civilians, and therefore is tried in accordance with the egyptian law. moreover, the egyptian authorities claim that all of the accusations directed at their legal system and the fact that they are breaching international law are invalid and that the egyptian judiciary is considered to be an independent and just unit. however, i find this to be not exactly true. apparently, the defendant is being kept in a court in a soundproof cell, which means that he is denied his right to follow the allegations. moreover, the potential death penalty is a breach of the right to life and the situation should be handled by people who have respect for human rights. mr halawa, even if guilty, should be given a just, unbiased trial by the independent judiciary without a threat of facing the loss of his life.
the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you for accepting my question, and congratulations on your speech. i agree with you, i just have one question, and i'm not hiding it, it's not just this maldives debate that's bothering me. is it not true that we as the european union should not only use the instrument of the tourist boycott - as you say, i agree with that - but also put some economic pressure on this country? perhaps that would be the only effective pressure to get the state, the maldivian government, to change its policy.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to thank mr tarabella very much for accepting my question. i know your commitment to human rights around the world. on this particular issue, i will ask, and i ask this often in the european parliament, because is it not true that we need to involve the european commission and the council, even the member states, more in economic pressure on those states that do not respect human rights? this instrument would be, i think, more effective. what do you think of that, mr. ambassador?
mr. chairman, please! the monetary unification of europe has caused a very serious economic crisis. it has hit some countries hard, but it has also led to the political disintegration of our cooperation. political reason would have us back off from such a policy, but the european union authorities only want to use this crisis to push even harder, even harder, to confiscate the sovereign competences of the nation states. this will only cause a greater political crisis, as the british position shows. this is not only in the interests of our peoples, but unfortunately it is a sign of serious political irresponsibility. but it's your choice. we choose to be sovereign.
in writing. ‒ the package of proposals adopted by the european commission on 21 october this year marks the beginning of the first stage in a series of actions to complete the construction of economic and monetary union. the commission is certainly to be commended for its efforts to develop the eu economy and to improve public finances. the document included many important demands, such as a change in approach to the european semester, the creation of a banking union and a more coherent representation of the euro area in international institutions. unfortunately, in addition to the important solutions, the document contains many proposals that may raise doubts. one of these issues is the misplaced belief in the miraculous power of institutional solutions. it is proposed to add to the existing bodies at european and national level, such as the national competitiveness councils. the european parliament resolution rightly highlights the commission's positive actions to strengthen economic and monetary union, while highlighting the problems with the implementation at national level of certain budgetary and fiscal reforms and the lack of proper coordination between the commission and parliament. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the theses set out in the report by christian preda on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and the eu's policy in this area. i agree that fundamental freedoms and human rights, such as freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of association and the principle of non-discrimination are constantly threatened and violated, and human rights defenders often pay a high price for their activism, in extreme cases, the price of their lives. i particularly strongly support the comments in the femm opinion attached to the report, which recalls women's rights as an important area of human rights and the need to mainstream women's rights in politics and the economy. i agree with the report's assertion that respect for human rights is an attribute of mature democracies and that fundamental freedoms and democratic values are at the heart of the european union's identity and underpin all its policies. these values are not given once and for all, they are constantly challenged and violated, which is why it is so important to take the right steps and create a legal framework for them, such as the strategic framework and the new european agenda for human rights and democracy, launched in 2012, which talks about integrating human rights issues into the eu's external policy and its relations with the entire external world.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the european union’s policy on the matter. the report states the importance for the european union to make the most out of the policy tools that are at our disposal in order to promote and protect human rights and democratic principles not only within the eu, but worldwide. moreover, the text considers the necessity for effective implementation of the new eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2015-2019. this is particularly important, because if we manage to do so, it will create the channels for joint global human rights actions and therefore enhanced respect for human rights. i believe that the report highlights the crucial role of international cooperation in the field of human rights and democracy. furthermore, it fully supports eu engagement in organisations such as the un or oecd, and that support is exactly what we need in order to promote human rights.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement obliged the parties to the conflict, namely the bosniaks, serbs and croats, to immediately cease hostilities and withdraw their armed forces from the designated demilitarised zone. this agreement brought to an end the bloodiest armed conflict in europe's postwar history. it should be noted, however, that the dayton agreement became the foundation on which the entirely new and extremely complex institutional structure of bosnia and herzegovina was built. within a single state, there are two autonomous units, ten cantons and 147 municipal councils, which means four levels of government. this is of course compounded by the country's ethnic division into three ethnic groups: bosniaks, serbs, and croats. each of these groups has numerous opportunities to block the decision-making system, which de facto leads to the paralysis of the state. this is why it is so important to support local political leaders in the difficult process of modernising the inefficient, inefficient and inconsistent institutions in bosnia and herzegovina. without a stable political system and an efficient and competent public administration, it is difficult to imagine the gradual integration of the country into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with the report presented. the eu's arms exports are worth €40 billion a year, including €28 billion to third countries. if you look at the global arms trade, 36 percent of that trade is in the eu. it is therefore entirely appropriate to assess each year whether the member states of the european union apply strict criteria to the arms trade. unfortunately, as the report indicates, this is not the case, and weapons exported from the eu also end up in the wrong hands. this requires not only tougher criteria for arms exports, but above all, close monitoring of who is the end user of arms. the primary purchasers are basically buying guns legally. the problem is that later, these weapons are often resold and end up in the hands of the wrong people. this is the weakest point in the implementation of the eu arms export policy.
