mr president juncker, mr prime minister renzi, the italian presidency will be remembered for a number of initiatives, notably with regard to the bank resolution fund or money laundering, but it will be remembered above all for having had the courage and the intelligence to put on the political agenda some of the issues essential for the survival of the euro and the european project. the need to reconcile public accounting discipline with the survival of the economy and employment, or the need not to kill strategic investment simply because public spending must be contained, may seem trivial, but they are not. the italian presidency has taken these issues seriously as subjects for discussion on the fundamental policies of europe. the european commission is new, the parliament has changed, but europe remains mired in stagnation with deflationary risks, with frightening unemployment and with the loss of citizens' confidence in the european project. it is true that the italian presidency has not yet brought the shock of energy and vitality that europe urgently needs, but perhaps that would be impossible. but after years of dogmatism, of blind and impoverishing austerity without hope, the new juncker commission and the italian presidency have begun to open up the issues that matter and to point in the right direction. nothing is done, but the door has been opened to the work we have to do, certainly at national level, but certainly also at collective level, now that the limits and gaps in the european architecture and, above all, the single currency are evident. the reflection must continue. i hope that the latvian presidency will not lose sight of the moment, but i hope that italy, once in the council, will not lose sight of the way. europe needs italy, and the citizens represented here in this house need to rediscover hope and, above all, the soul of europe. thanks to the italian presidency, a ray of hope is now shining before us.
the italian presidency of the european union has created high expectations. the inspiring speech by mateo renzi in the european parliament and the priorities set - europe for jobs and economic growth, a europe closer to the citizens: an area for democracy, rights and freedoms and a new impetus for the european union's external policy - generated a hope that was only partially met. if, in the field of external relations, the european union's efforts to play a greater role in the many economic and military conflicts that are raging in the world were notable, in the field of growth and employment the italian presidency was unable to turn words into deeds, certainly not for lack of effort, but because in europe a punitive hegemony of some countries over others continued to prevail, instead of having evolved towards a level of cooperation and solidarity that would benefit everyone.
in writing. the agreement reached on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory provides a clearer framework and more flexibility as to the reasons for such a refusal. at the same time, it must be said that this agreement leaves many of us dissatisfied, both those who are strongly opposed to the cultivation of gmos in the european union because of the environmental risks that exist, which science cannot exclude, and those who believe that the scientific evidence available on the health effects of gmos is irrefutable and that the obstacles to this technology are helping to kill science and the small european companies in the sector. i would like to conclude by saying that i believe this agreement represents a small but important step, as it preserves the robust scientific evaluation process by the european food safety authority and reserves the possibility for member states to act in defence of the will of their citizens, according to a number of pre-established criteria.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would ask you to calm the mood of that bench, please. first of all, i would like to point out that our group has proposed a debate on fisheries at this part-session, a debate which would include the debate on this report on the fisheries agreement between the european union and são tomé and príncipe. we regret that all the other groups have refused to take part in this debate. it is incomprehensible, especially since you cannot claim that we have a full agenda, that yesterday was without any debate. as regards this agreement, it is important to remember that this parliament can only approve or reject the proposals negotiated by the european commission and cannot amend them. if we were able to make these amendments, the proposal which is being discussed and voted on here would certainly be very different from the one we have, because a profound change in the philosophy, objectives and results of these agreements is needed. it is important to approve this agreement, it is important for são tomé and príncipe and for the member states of the european union, but it does not erase, it cannot erase the overall negative balance of what has been left behind, nor does it erase the need for profound changes. among other aspects, improvements in the quantity and reliability of information on catches and, in general, on the state of conservation of fisheries resources, more and better support for the training of observers and the development of monitoring capacity by são tomé and príncipe, more and better sectoral cooperation, changing the course of the last three decades of life that this agreement, in various forms, already has, in respect for the sovereignty and the legitimate choices and priorities of são tomé and príncipe. these are requirements for a fair agreement that truly promotes sustainable development and fisheries, and the european commission should take them into account in the coming years.
in writing. the conclusion of this protocol between the european union and são tomé and príncipe is very important not only for the development of the african nation but also from the european point of view as it will allow our vessels to expand their fishing area while allowing better control in terms of environment and sustainability. it is also an important way of strengthening the european union's relations with a country which has had a strong link with portugal for a long time and with which we have every interest in cooperating. my vote in favour of this report is a wish that it be put into practice as soon as possible and that parliament be kept informed of developments in this process.
in writing. i support the report by my compatriot joão ferreira on the new protocol to the eu-são tomé and príncipe fisheries agreement which authorises 34 vessels from spain, france and portugal to fish in their waters. i share your criticism of the fact that there was no political will to discuss these agreements in plenary, especially when the agenda was not very full, and i agree with the added value that this agreement represents for the effective and sustainable development of the fisheries sector in this portuguese-speaking country. the protocol provides for fishing opportunities for 28 tuna seiners and six surface longliners, shared between vessels from spain, france and portugal, and involves an overall financial contribution of eur 2 805 000 over four years.
in writing. the previous protocol, which was in force from 13 may 2011 to 12 may 2014, allowed 40 eu tuna vessels to operate: 28 purse seiners and 12 surface longliners. the financial contribution was eur 682 500 per year, of which about 35% was earmarked for supporting the santomense sectoral policy. the new protocol to the eu-são tomé and príncipe fisheries agreement will allow 34 vessels from spain, france and portugal to fish in são tomé and príncipe's waters. the protocol also aims to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and to support the sectoral policy of santo domingo. the overall financial contribution is eur 2 805 000 over four years. i also think it is important that the european commission should take the necessary steps, including the possible revision and increase of the sectoral support component of the agreement, to ensure an effective reversal of the path followed over the last twenty years.
in writing. the eu-são tomé and príncipe fisheries agreement is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa. the first fisheries agreement between the eec and são tomé and príncipe was concluded in 1984. since then, eight protocols have been implemented, two of which are under the fisheries partnership agreement. however, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are very limited. this is a reality that needs to change. this agreement, in conjunction with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the effective sustainable development of the santoméan fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources. the european commission should take the necessary steps including the possible revision and increase of the sectoral support component of the agreement to ensure an effective reversal of the path followed over the last twenty years.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement is important for são tomé and príncipe and for the member states of the european union, although i regret that the european commission insists on maintaining a philosophy in the drafting of these agreements which does not contribute to improving the sustainability of resources and does not include or take into account the legitimate options and priorities of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa and allows eu vessels to fish in são tomé and príncipe's waters. the previous protocol, which was in force from 13 may 2011 to 12 may 2014, allowed 40 eu tuna vessels to operate: 28 purse seiners and 12 surface longliners. the financial contribution was eur 682 500 per year, of which about 35% was earmarked for supporting the santomense sectoral policy. following the negotiations on the renewal of the implementing protocol, a new protocol was initialled on 19 december 2013 and will be in force for 4 years from 23 may 2014 and will allow 34 eu vessels (28 tuna seiners and 6 surface longliners) to fish. the annual financial contribution was set at eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year, of which eur 325 000 was earmarked for supporting the santomense sectoral policy.
in writing. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is part of the network of agreements on tuna fishing in west africa. the new protocol was signed on 19 december 2013, following on from a previous protocol which had been in force from 13 may 2011 until 12 may 2014. it is intended to be valid for a period of four years, starting from 23 may 2014, and will allow 34 eu vessels (28 tuna vessels and 6 surface longliners) to carry out their fishing activity. the annual financial contribution was set at eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year, with eur 325 000 to support sectoral policy in são tomé and príncipe. i voted in favour.
in writing. i would vote in favour of this recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the new four-year protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, as it will enable eu vessels to fish in são tomé and príncipe's waters through an annual financial contribution which will allow a significant amount to be channelled to support são tomé and príncipe's sectoral policy. however, i would like to stress, as the rapporteur has done, that it is imperative to adopt a more integrated approach to sectoral cooperation with this country, which will allow, in particular, greater information to the santoméan authorities on the catch index, conservation of fishery resources, increased training of observers and the capacity to monitor the santoméan eez, as well as support for the development of fishing infrastructure that will allow the export of fishery products to the european union, among others. it is therefore not enough to allocate financial compensation. it is imperative that these are accompanied by credible sectoral policies that allow the development of the santo domingo fishing sector, in respect of the sovereignty and legitimate aspirations and objectives of the country in this sector.
in writing. like the mep and rapporteur joão ferreira, i, as the s&d shadow rapporteur, have assessed this agreement positively. i have to make some comments, however, which i regard as opportunities for improvement in future fisheries agreements with the european union. the agreement lacks references to target species, protected species such as sea turtles, marine mammals and seabirds, and no mention is made of mitigation or control measures for sharks. one of the biggest threats to sea turtle populations is industrial fishing. são tomé and príncipe until recently used sea turtles for both food and local crafts, but since a few years both government authorities and local communities associated with ngos have been implementing programs to protect sea turtles, including their nesting sites. the european union must be united in this effort to protect the environment and this should have been reflected in this fisheries agreement. finally, i would point out that it is important that the activity includes the inclusion of independent observers, whose costs are borne financially by the shipowners. this should be the case in all fisheries agreements.
in writing. this agreement is important for são tomé and príncipe and for the member states of the european union. however, this does not erase the overall negative balance of what was left behind. nor does it erase the need for profound change. the quantity and reliability of information on catches and, in general, on the state of conservation of fishery resources need to be improved. more training for observers and more support for the development of monitoring capacity by são tomé and príncipe are needed. we also believe that more and better sectoral cooperation is warranted, always with respect for the sovereignty and the legitimate choices and priorities of são tomé and príncipe.
the first fisheries agreement between the eec and são tomé and príncipe was concluded in 1984. since then, eight protocols have been implemented, two of them under the fisheries partnership agreement. however, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are very limited. this is a reality that must be changed urgently. this agreement, in conjunction with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the effective sustainable development of the santoméan fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources. the european commission should take the necessary steps including the possible revision and increase of the sectoral support component of the agreement to ensure an effective reversal of the path followed over the last twenty years.
relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement. this is the union's most important agreement in the indian ocean region, making the seychelles its main partner in that area. this agreement is an access agreement concerning access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and biological resources of mayotte. before the change in the status of mayotte, due to the geographical proximity between mayotte and seychelles, relations between european and seychelles fishing vessels on the one hand and mayotte on the other were governed by a private agreement. this access agreement is the first of its kind and is exceptional in that it allows vessels flying the flag of a third country to fish in european territorial waters. the agreement provides for eight tuna vessels and two replenishment vessels flying the seychelles flag to be allowed access to the 24- to 100-mile zone for a renewable period of six years. the zone between 0 and 24 miles shall remain reserved for the local fishery of mayotte.
in writing. this agreement allows seychelles-flagged vessels access to mayotte waters and its resources. the territory of mayotte acquired the status of an outermost region of the eu in january 2014. as a result, the exclusive economic zone of mayotte is subject to the provisions of the eu treaties since its establishment. the conservation of the living marine resources of mayotte, within the framework of the common fisheries policy, is an exclusive competence of the eu. for this reason, the existing bilateral agreement between mayotte and seychelles previously already existing must now be re-established by the eu. our position on the eu's powers in this area is well known. we are against it. however, this report is only intended to extend under the new conditions the same previously existing agreement, which allows a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, offering some counterparts aimed at supporting the sustainable development of the fishing sector in mayotte which is mainly made up of small-scale fleet. which is why we have nothing to object to in this deal.
relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement. the sustainable tuna fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and seychelles entered into force on 10 may 2003 and has been renewed twice since that date. this is the union's most important agreement in the indian ocean region, making the seychelles its main partner in that area. this agreement is an access agreement, initialled on 3 april 2014, between the republic of seychelles and the european union on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to waters and biological resources of mayotte.
in writing. the eu-seychelles sustainable tuna fisheries partnership agreement entered into force on 10 may 2003. this agreement, initialled on 3 april 2014, concerns access for seychelles fishing vessels to mayotte waters, authorising 8 seychelles tuna vessels and 2 seychelles tankers to fish in mayotte waters within a range of 24 to 100 nautical miles. it is noted that the territory of mayotte became an eu outermost region on 1 january 2014 and its exclusive economic zone is now an integral part of eu waters. it was therefore necessary to replace the previous private agreement governing relations between seychelles fishing vessels and mayotte. in terms of financial contributions, the fees paid by seychelles vessels are identical to those paid by european vessels in seychelles waters (eur 110 per tonne of fish caught in the first year) and these fees are to be used to support local fisheries in mayotte. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be beneficial for both parties and in accordance with the terms of the common fisheries policy and the rules of the indian ocean tuna commission.
in writing. on 10 may 2003, a partnership agreement between the european union and seychelles in the field of sustainable tuna fisheries entered into force. however, as from 1 january 2014, mayotte became an outermost region of the eu and this access agreement was initialled on 3 april 2014 concerning access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and biological resources of mayotte, which became managed by the eu, in accordance with article 3 tfeu which establishes that the union has exclusive competence to manage the fishery resources of mayotte and to negotiate and manage the bilateral agreements relating to this territory. the new agreement will allow a limited number of vessels flying the flag of seychelles and traditionally fishing in mayotte waters to continue fishing in the octs' eez under the rules of the common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i agree with the rapporteur that the conditions attached to this agreement are appropriate, proportionate and transparent, and that they bring benefits to both parties.
in writing. this is an atypical fishing agreement. contrary to what is usual, instead of obtaining access to fishing grounds in third countries, the european union is now disposing of its territory so that a third country can fish there. the european union is thus allowing the republic of seychelles to fish in mayotte, a new outermost region of europe. the financial benefits of the initiative are passed on to the maiote government. i ask to speak to justify my choice to vote in favour because i think it is crucial that it should be noted that, although it is a positive agreement, it could have gone further. future fisheries agreements will have to clearly define the target species, mention the species in those waters that are covered by international, national or regional conservation status, and indicate what measures are taken to mitigate any effect on these species.
the territory of mayotte acquired the status of an outermost region of the european union on 1 january 2014. as a result, the mayotte exclusive economic zone (eez) now belongs to eu waters. since the eu has exclusive competence for the conservation of resources (article 3 tfeu), the european union is responsible for the management of fishery resources and the negotiation and management of bilateral agreements on mayotte. in view of their proximity, mayotte and seychelles were the subject of a private agreement. this has allowed a total of some 30 vessels, including eight from seychelles, to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, thus allowing the development of their fishing industry through the direct payment of fees by shipowners to the french authorities in mayotte. this agreement between the republic of seychelles and the european union thus allows a limited number of seychelles vessels to continue fishing in the maiote eez, taking into account the rules of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. this agreement allows seychelles-flagged vessels access to mayotte waters and its resources. the territory of mayotte acquired the status of an outermost region of the eu in january 2014. as a result, the exclusive economic zone of mayotte is subject to the provisions of the eu treaties since its establishment. the conservation of its marine living resources, under the common fisheries policy, is an exclusive competence of the eu. for this reason, the existing bilateral agreement between mayotte and seychelles must now be re-established by the eu. our position on the eu's powers in this area is well known. we are against it. as this report is only intended to extend under the new conditions the same agreement as before, allowing a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, offering some counter-measures to support the sustainable development of the fishing industry in mayotte, which is essentially a small-scale fleet, we have nothing to oppose to this agreement.
in writing. i support the report by mr brok adapting the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. this simple act is laden with great symbolism. when the institutions are functioning, the new member states must be fully integrated. this is now the case in the euro-mediterranean agreement, but it should have been the case already with regard to full integration into the schengen area. the council is postponing a decision it should have taken by now, shielding itself from a unanimity it apparently cannot achieve.
the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu (in 2007) required the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement to extend to these two countries the scope of the creation of a free trade area. the conclusion of this protocol is not, however, a neutral act, since it broadens its scope by increasing the territory and the population covered. this agreement will have a serious impact on tunisia's ability to take measures to manage its economy independently, allowing the large economic groups on both sides freedom of establishment without additional costs, and benefiting them at the expense of smes, small and mediumsized farmers, family farming and small-scale fishing. the effects of this are well known: it increases competition and thereby puts pressure on workers to reduce wages, reduce export costs, lower prices for the final consumer in order to destroy local production, and then raise them again when production and/or trade cease to be dominant, without benefiting food quality and safety, and causing even greater environmental destruction.
in writing. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union is hereby approved on behalf of the community and its member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the euro-mediterranean partnership between the eu and the countries of the southern mediterranean started in 1995 with the barcelona process. between 1998 and 2005, the eu concluded euro-mediterranean association agreements with seven countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, including tunisia (decision 98/238/ec on the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part). the main objectives of these agreements are to promote regular dialogue on political and security matters, economic, commercial and financial cooperation (progressive liberalisation of trade, sustainable regional development and investment promotion), and social, cultural and educational cooperation between the parties. as bulgaria and romania have acceded to the eu with effect from 1 january 2007, it was necessary to ensure the full participation of these two member states in bilateral relations with tunisia. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and tunisia to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. the euro-mediterranean agreement signed in the 1990s was intended to establish an association between the european communities and their member states, on the one hand, and the republic of tunisia, on the other, replacing the cooperation agreement and the agreement on ecsc products signed in 1976. in 2012, the protocol to the abovementioned agreement was signed in order to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. in this sense, this recommendation on the draft council decision deserves my vote in favour, not only because it is a natural legislative derivation from the applicability of the treaties, but also because it is based on an agreement which is a testimony to the strengthening of the euro-mediterranean policy, guided by principles such as partnership and reciprocity.
in writing. this protocol is based on the treaties. consider the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, and take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. we have nothing to object to as long as the rights of peoples to their independence and sovereignty are respected.
the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu requires the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement to extend to these two countries the scope of the creation of a so-called free trade area. the conclusion of this protocol is not, however, a neutral act, since it broadens its scope by increasing the territory and the population covered. this agreement virtually destroys the capacity of a country, in this case tunisia, to take measures to manage its economy independently, allowing the large economic groups on both sides freedom of establishment without additional costs, benefiting them at the expense of smes, small and mediumsized farmers and family farming and small-scale fishing. the effects of this are well known: it increases competition and thereby puts pressure on workers to reduce wages, reduce export costs, lower prices for the final consumer in order to destroy local production, and then raise them again when production and/or trade cease to be dominant, without benefiting food quality and safety, and causing even greater environmental destruction.
in writing. this request, provided for in rule 137, allows committees to request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general questions or on specific questions. the consultation follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the road to sustainable mobility, which has pushed the transport sector towards market liberalisation, building the european transport market, leading to privatisations of public transport companies and resulting in social dumping, deterioration of service quality and concentration of the sector into monopolies and oligopolies, problems which parliament itself identified in december 2011 as consequences to be avoided. we warned at the time, when we voted, that this would not lead to improved quality of service, better prices or more jobs, but on the contrary, it would be detrimental to consumers, workers and national economies, and the promise of more jobs is in plain sight. we voted in favour of consulting the european economic and social committee on this subject, but with the concern that it will no longer be an instrument for legitimising the exploitation of workers and deepening neoliberal policies.
in writing. i agree with the recommendation of the committee on transport that this issue be referred back to the commission and in the near future to the ep for discussion.
representatives of employers' and workers' associations and other interest groups may express their views on matters concerning the european union through the european economic and social committee (eesc), which issues opinions to the council, the commission and the european parliament. in march 2011, the european commission adopted a strategy for a competitive transport system that would increase urban mobility, overcome major obstacles in key transport sectors and foster oil and employment growth, including proposals to dramatically reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. this request, provided for in rule 137 of the rules of procedure, follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the road to sustainable mobility. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper, not only because it is a legal obligation, but also because i consider that it is a body with a clear competence to formulate a consistent and reasoned opinion on what the future of europe in the field of transport should be. we all know that transport is a prerequisite for economic development, and mobility is synonymous with the vitality of the internal market and the quality of life of citizens. since 2001, when the last white paper on this subject was published, considerable progress has been made. however, the sustainability of the transport system remains a challenge, notably in terms of its dependence on oil, the use of renewable sources, co2 emissions, congestion costs and regional disparities in accessibility. i therefore agree with the request to consult the economic and social committee on this document, which gives a comprehensive overview of the development of the transport sector, the challenges to be faced and the policy initiatives to be considered for the coming years.
in writing. the consultation follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the way forward towards sustainable mobility. this book has pushed the transport sector towards the liberalisation of markets, towards privatisation of public transport companies and has resulted in social dumping situations with deterioration in the quality of services. it has promoted the concentration of the sector in private monopolies and oligopolies, problems which parliament itself identified in december 2011 as consequences to be avoided. in voting for the white paper, we warned that such a path would not bring either improved quality of service, better prices or more jobs, but on the contrary, the record is one of damage to users, workers and national economies and the promises of more jobs are in plain sight. we voted in favour of consulting the european economic and social committee on this subject, but we were concerned that it would no longer be an instrument for legitimising the exploitation of workers and for deepening neoliberal policies.
in writing. this request, provided for in rule 137, allows committees to request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general questions or on specific questions. the consultation follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the road to sustainable mobility, which has pushed the transport sector towards market liberalisation, building the european transport market, leading to privatisations of public transport companies and resulting in social dumping, deterioration of service quality and concentration of the sector into monopolies and oligopolies, problems which parliament itself identified in december 2011 as consequences to be avoided. we voted in favour of consulting the european economic and social committee on this matter, but we hope that it will no longer be an instrument for legitimising the exploitation of workers and for deepening neoliberal policies.
in writing. i support the ries report as the possible compromise, although i have many doubts about the solution found. i am sensitive to the complexity of the gmo problem and to the fact that there are passionate opinions on this subject which vary from one member state to another. and i agree that there should be legal certainty when member states ban or limit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) authorised at eu level on their territories, based on environmental reasons such as the maintenance of local biodiversity, socioeconomic impacts or land use criteria, among others. but i am afraid that this will not help to strengthen the cohesion of the internal market and i am afraid of the contagion factors that can occur between neighbouring states when one authorises and the other does not, despite the fact that it has been established that member states must ensure that gm crops do not contaminate conventional and organic crops and must prevent crossborder contamination.
in writing. this directive gives member states the possibility to prohibit or limit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) authorised at eu level on their territory, based on environmental reasons such as the maintenance of local biodiversity, socioeconomic impacts or land use criteria, among others. in 2014, the area cultivated with gmos in portugal was 8542,41 hectares, according to data from the ministry of agriculture. among the grounds that member states may invoke to justify a prohibition or restriction on the cultivation of gmos are environmental criteria, criteria related to land use planning, land use, socioeconomic impacts, agricultural policy objectives and the need to avoid the presence of gmos in other products. member states should ensure that gm crops do not contaminate conventional and organic crops and prevent cross-border contamination, a request expressed by the majority of european farmers.
in writing. the good intentions of the majority in this parliament have once again been overridden by the economic interests of the biotechnology multinationals. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the proposal would require member states to ask multinational companies which produce and market gmos for authorisation to exclude them from their geographical scope. they may accept or refuse that request. this is unacceptable. it is the total submission of political power to the interests of big capital. if there are any doubts about the majority of this parliament's approach to this issue and its implications, the mere fact that the legal basis in this text is shifting from environmental protection to the internal market reveals yet another intention of this proposal, which is inseparable from the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement with the us: to satisfy the commercial objectives of the big us biotechnology (gmo) companies. although the initial intention of the proposal could be seen as an advance on the present situation, negotiations with the council resulted in an unacceptable text. we voted against it.
in writing. i voted against because i consider that the cultivation of gmos poses a serious danger to health, the environment and biodiversity. the decision on this matter cannot be left to the member states, because it is a decision which has repercussions beyond the sources, not only because of the risk of contamination but also because of the distribution and sale of gmo products, even in countries where cultivation is prohibited. the return of the decision to the member states in this matter is a poisoned gift, because the rights and health of european citizens are being jeopardized under a false guise of strengthening national sovereignty. it is therefore a farce, especially when we know that this is one of the issues that will be negotiated under the transatlantic partnership agreement.
in writing. i agree that member states should have the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory, in accordance with this proposal which has now been adopted. i also agree with the amendments proposed by the ep which add measures to prohibit or limit the cultivation of gmos in all or part of the national territory. we should also be able to rely on local or regional environmental grounds and socioeconomic impacts to make such bans. member states should also take into account, when deciding, reasons related to socio-economic impacts, such as the unfeasibility or high cost of coexistence measures and the risk of contamination of conventional or organic farming by gmos. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the amendment to the current eu legislative framework on gmos aims to give more latitude and legal certainty to member states wishing to ban the cultivation of gmos permitted at european level in all or part of their territories. such prohibitions or limitations shall be based on grounds other than those covered by the environmental and health risk assessment that is part of the eu authorisation process. among the grounds that member states may invoke to justify a prohibition or restriction on the cultivation of gmos are environmental criteria complementing those assessed by the european food safety authority (efsa) at european level, criteria related to land use planning, land use, socio-economic impacts, agricultural policy objectives and the need to avoid the presence of gmos in other products. i believe that such a proposal will give european countries greater freedom to address specific national or local issues raised by the cultivation of gmos, and will also help to facilitate the authorization process in this area. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. following the council position adopted on 23 july 2014 by the 28 union ministers of the environment to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos in their territories, the recommendation now emerges with a view to adopting a directive aimed at extending the rights of member states in this field through a strict legal framework that will only allow gmos to be placed on the market after an authorisation based on a scientific assessment of the risks to human and animal health and the environment. as can be read in the text of the recommendation, this is in practice to amend directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of gmos and the authorised cultivation of gmos under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on food and feed containing or produced from gmos. in view of this factual circumstantiality, i agree with the amendments to the proposal which are essentially intended to give greater latitude and legal certainty to member states wishing to ban the cultivation of gmos in all or part of their territories, thus unlocking a deadlock which had persisted since the european parliament's vote at first reading on 5 july 2011.
at the end of the process of discussing this directive, once again, the interests of multinational agribusinesses are privileged. your gmo supporters are in the majority in this parliament and, as you would expect, they approve this proposal. the protection of the public interest, public health, the environment and sustainable agriculture, especially small and medium-sized farming, but also national sovereignty, have been relegated to the background. with this directive, which runs counter to all the appeals and recommendations of the envi committee, states are put in the unacceptable position of having to ask multinationals not to market genetically modified organisms on their territory, and the multinationals can refuse this request. the legal basis is no longer the environment and public health, but the internal market. the way in which the majority of this parliament views this issue and its implications is thus revealing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive which gives member states more flexibility to prohibit or limit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) authorised at eu level on their territories, based on environmental grounds such as the maintenance of local biodiversity, socioeconomic impacts or on criteria related to land use, among others. the amendment to the current eu legislative framework on gmos will give greater latitude and legal certainty to member states wishing to ban the cultivation of gmos permitted at european level in all or part of their territories. european countries will now have greater freedom to address specific national or local issues raised by the cultivation of gmos.
in writing. the initial good intentions of the majority in this parliament have once again given way to the economic interests of the biotechnology multinationals, to the detriment of the defence of traditional agriculture, the environment, the interests and health of the population, as we unfortunately expected. the text adopted has removed essential points, such as the principle of coexistence and the introduction of clean zones between neighbouring countries, thus undermining and weakening the precautionary principle, and the same applies to environmental concerns and protection, which are no longer the legal basis for the precautionary principle. the text presented gives more room for large biotechnology and agribusiness companies to reject and take legal action against requests for restrictions/ban on gmos in member states that so wish. no account is taken of any liability, refund and damage protection schemes, in particular with regard to liability requirements and financial guarantees, and the rights of consumers of choice and traditional farmers not to see their crops contaminated are not guaranteed. we voted against it.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established by international agreement in 1949. the area covered by the agreement includes the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters. the main tasks of the cgpm are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources, formulate and recommend conservation measures and promote cooperation projects in the field of training. this amendment will allow for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area, which i support.
in writing. this agreement allows seychelles-flagged vessels access to mayotte waters and its resources. the territory of mayotte has acquired the status of an outermost region of the eu since january 2014. as a result, the exclusive economic zone of mayotte is subject to the provisions of the eu treaties since its establishment. the conservation of the living marine resources of mayotte, within the framework of the common fisheries policy, is an exclusive competence of the eu. for this reason, the existing bilateral agreement between mayotte and seychelles previously already existing must now be re-established by the eu. our position on the eu's powers in this area is well known. we are against it. however, this report is only intended to extend under the new conditions the same previously existing agreement, which allows a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, offering some counterparts aimed at supporting the sustainable development of the fishing sector in mayotte which is mainly made up of small-scale fleet. which is why we have nothing to object to in this deal.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established by international agreement in 1949. the area covered by the agreement includes the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters. the main tasks of the cgpm are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources, formulate and recommend conservation measures and promote cooperation projects in the field of training. the contracting parties to the gfcm are the european community, albania, algeria, bulgaria, cyprus, croatia, egypt, france, japan, greece, israel, italy, lebanon, libya, malta, morocco, monaco, romania, syria, slovenia, spain, tunisia and turkey. the gfcm is to be concluded in accordance with the provisions of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on trade in textile products. the provisions of the gfcm should be implemented in a manner that protects, conserves and develops living aquatic resources. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), established in 1949, covering the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters, has as its main tasks to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources, to design and recommend conservation measures and to promote cooperation projects in the field of training. the gfcm has adopted a set of measures aimed at ensuring, for example, the sustainable exploitation of red coral; the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans; a high level of protection of sharks and rays against fishing activities, including those involving sharks and rays listed as endangered or threatened species; and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. these measures go beyond the protection already ensured at union level for species by the habitats directive and other eu acts and should be incorporated into union law. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 which aims to transpose the recommendations of the gfcm into community law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for an amendment to regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council as i consider the recommendations suggested by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) for sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of bycatch of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, as well as the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays belonging to the ecosystem covered by the gfcm agreement to be relevant and justified. i welcome, as does the rapporteur, the proposal to transpose these recommendations of the gfcm into community law, as these are measures which go beyond the protection already granted to these species at european union level by the habitats directive and other union acts, and as they impose specific obligations on operators and member states to register and report relevant information on this matter. however, i share the rapporteur's concern about the transposition of these recommendations by the member states, which should not be subject to derogation.
the ec's proposal for a diploma is a smart and consistent instrument to support the management of mediterranean marine biodiversity in the context of human activities. this diploma creates specific rules to protect turtles, seabirds, monk seals, cetaceans and some species of sharks. the commission is also concerned about the introduction of rules restricting the effort involved in the capture of red coral. the proposal now approved by parliament includes the possibility of using remote-controlled vehicles for commercial exploitation in the future. however, if this is to happen, the negative implications of the technology should be taken into account, both in terms of contact damage and increased stress. we cannot allow the proposed reduction of effort at shallower depths to be transposed technologically to greater depths in a strategy of fishing down the deep. as a precautionary measure, marine protected areas, which have already brought benefits to overexploited red coral populations in europe, should be extended.
in writing. this proposal aims to transpose the recommendations of the cgpm into community law. however, the commission ignores the measures already in place in the member states which are already in line with the cgpm recommendations. member states which have already transposed the recommendations of the gfcm cannot today be required to submit to the commission the requests for derogations provided for by the gfcm. however, it should be noted that the deactivation of the derogation procedure also removes the procedure for obtaining an independent judgment to see whether member states have in fact transposed the cgpm recommendations to protect red coral. the commission proposal is in some cases more stringent than the cgpm recommendations. for example, the commission completely prohibits the use of underwater vehicles for red coral exploitation after 2014 when the relevant cgpm recommendation does not prevent it from being used in case of favourable scientific advice. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation established within the framework of fao, whose objectives are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of marine resources. this legislative proposal aims to transpose into eu law a set of measures adopted by the gfcm. technical measures are being considered to enable sustainable management of red coral, mitigation of the incidental capture of seabirds, turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of seals, sharks and rays. the mato report generally undermines the european commission's legislative proposal, which occasionally goes beyond the cgpm's recommendations on the protection of red coral and other wildlife that may be caught accidentally; in some cases, it even seems to call into question some of the recommendations of the cgpm. that is why we are voting against it.
first of all, i would like to greet president tusk, wish him the very best in his duties and say that for the epp and also in my case as a portuguese, it is an honour to finally have a pole at the head of the european council. i think that is a sign of the vitality of europe which i wanted to welcome here. secondly, i would also like to say a word of solidarity and fraternity to our french colleagues following last week's attack, and i would like to take up all that our spanish colleague gonzález pons has said about the tasks facing the community institutions and, in particular, the council in the field of terrorism. i would like to say two things about the last council: firstly, to welcome the commission's investment plan and the way in which the council has embraced it, and to wish that the council and each of the states represented in it can now give 100% support to the implementation of this plan, because we need that determination to recover the european economy and, in particular, those economies, such as the economies of the countries receiving assistance, which are the poorest and most fragile, that is a point. and the second point, which i have noted with great appreciation, is the importance it has attached to the energy union, to the single energy market, which is fundamental to the european economy and to european security and which is very important, in particular, for the countries of the iberian peninsula, which could make a major contribution to the diversification of energy sources and which, without this single market and without new links through france, will not be able to do so. i very much welcome these two outcomes of the last european council.
mr president, i would like to address mr tusk in saying that his appointment as the head of the european council has a high political meaning, and we congratulate him. mr tusk, you are arriving at a very special moment – a moment where the european union can only deliver if it is possible to pool national resources. we believe this will be your most important and challenging task. we need to pool national resources in order to foster investment and job creation; we need to pool natural resources to provide better energy solutions, more internal and external security and also to ensure real faith in european integration. let me tell you that you can count on the european parliament and also on the s&d group for this purpose. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – let us take an exact example, coming back to the last european council. we are creating a fund for strategic investment, and if we want this fund to pool resources and lend on a larger scale, we need to have clear contributions coming from member states. so i believe this should be a task for the european council at its forthcoming meetings: we need to have a stronger fund for strategic investment.
the council's statements are more of the same. it insists on an insufficient investment plan, based on a mere exercise in creative accounting, from which it counts on the miracle of the multiplication of the loaves. it uses the euphemistic expression of fiscal responsibility and insists on structural reforms, knowing that it is austerity and the attack on the welfare state that are at the root of this unprecedented social and economic crisis. it insists on the unrestrained liberalisation of trade relations with the united states through ttip. finally, it brings up ukraine as a revealing element of a european union to be drawn in by the united states and nato. we are now paying the bill for a ukraine that is sinking by the day. we are now on to the third loan, which is already worth over 3.5 billion euros. in here, the budget is cut to serve the interests of the united states, nato and big business. the european union is much more generous.
it is urgent to stop the civil war and the worsening humanitarian crisis inside libya and its neighbourhood, with thousands of refugees, the risk of environmental disasters from burning oil plants and the use of libyan territory as a sanctuary for terrorist organisations, such as the one that has just criminally struck us in paris. it is regional, european and global security that is under threat from a failed state in libya. the time has come for us to join african countries in calling for international military intervention, duly mandated by the united nations security council and articulated with regional partners: the arab league, the african union. it is urgent to have a un peacekeeping mission to help restore security conditions to enforce a political agreement between all the libyan factions, as the un special representative, bernardino léon, has been faithfully promoting. such an agreement among libyans is possible! and i hope it happens tomorrow, too! but we must not ignore that today in libya a proxy war is being waged, involving the same powers that are behind the so-called islamic state, whatever the variation of the terrorist hydra. the european union must use its political and diplomatic influence against this interference and must redirect its own mission and the bam (border assistance mission) within the framework of the common security and defence policy to respond to the real security needs of libya. it must be part of a un peacekeeping mission, which must give priority to the collection of arms, the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of militias and armed groups, and the formation of state-controlled security institutions. europe also has a responsibility for the degradation of post-gaddafi libya, including by failing to prioritise security sector reform. some member states have refused to act in a coordinated manner, competing with each other to promote their own interests. the union has given up coordinating them. it is urgent that the high representative confronts them, changes this legacy and gives strategy, effectiveness and coherence to the european union's action in libya and the region, as indeed mrs mogherini here today recognised was necessary. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
blue-card answer. – mr arnott, i do not know whether you ever set foot in libya. i did, and i did in the middle of the war against gaddafi, and i saw that this was no iraq. this was no invasion like in iraq in 2003; this was a real people’s revolution, albeit aided by an international intervention – with a un mandate, by the way. i was there even last december and i was speaking to libyan parties in the region, in tunis, and i know that the people of libya at this moment really welcome such an intervention, because they think this is the only way to have what they need, which is a reform of the state that gaddafi simply did not have. so we have our responsibilities, and one of our responsibilities is to protect the people of libya, to correct our mistakes, and that is why i say, together with african neighbouring countries, that we need a un-mandated international intervention according to international law for peace and for saving people, the people of libya.
i would like to pay tribute to the efforts of many, and i would like to highlight the italian authorities, who have lost more than 3500 lives trying to cross the mediterranean. on christmas day alone, 1,300 were saved. we now have one: abandonment of large freighters, on automatic pilot, loaded with third country nationals. it was over 1,000 immigrants in inhumane conditions. i agree with commissioner avramopoulos. we must think about working at the root of the problems, in particular through agreements with the countries of origin, legal immigration routes, development aid. it 's the only way . but it is imperative that the mediterranean should not become the scene of yet another tragedy. many have said that . we must and must be the men, women and children who are trying to escape these scourges. so there's a who and what and the means at his disposal. and we need a real one . and we have to . last year, we passed a regulation that establishes mandatory rules on search and rescue operations for migrants at sea. the existence of different rules between operations financed by the union budget and the responsibility of the member states must now be reconsidered. saving lives must be a priority for everyone!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good one, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. the reality around us is shocking. how many more women in the european union are now in poverty and unemployment? how many are affected by precarious work and go from part-time to part-time with no time for themselves, their families or anyone else? how many of you are asked at job interviews, just to get a job, if you want to be a mother? how many suffer violence and moral and sexual harassment in their workplace and at home? how many are increasingly denied rights to health care in pregnancy and family planning? how many have to feed their children alone when the minimal social supports they had have been cut off recently? there's a lot of them. these women may never make it to the corporate boardroom, but they represent the dominant reality that we hope they will not forget.
in writing. the media impact of this measure is always very large. however, there are, unfortunately, and as the commission should know, many other problems of inequality between men and women which are priorities. we look around and see an endless series of shocking examples. look at the statistics on poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. her face is always feminine. how many women in the eu are now unemployed and poorer? how many are affected by precarious work? how many women are asked in job interviews for precarious, low-paying jobs if they think they're going to get pregnant? how many suffer violence and moral and sexual harassment in the workplace and at home? how many are denied the right to health care during pregnancy? how many suffered from cuts in social support, and in particular in support for their children, because of the impositions of the troika in portugal, greece or ireland, to name just a few countries? these women will probably never make it to the top of a company. but unfortunately, they are the overwhelming majority and they are the ones who suffer more than men from the effects of austerity policies which, day by day, and with the struggle of all working men and women, will come to an end.
madam president, last december the portuguese attorney general closed the case on the purchase of submarines from a german consortium, after nine years of investigation based on strong suspicions of corruption, fraud and money laundering. the portuguese prosecutors wrote that the investigation was blocked by the lack of cooperation from their german colleagues who, despite many rogatory letters and other requests, never sent to portugal determining elements of proof, many of them seized in a joint search. this was different to what was done towards greece in the same case involving submarines, although in germany corruptors for portugal and greece were convicted. who are the corrupt portuguese that germany is covering up? this is intolerable in the context of european judicial cooperation and, mr avramopoulos, the commission must intervene, otherwise the corrupt, the money launderers and other criminals will continue to use internal market freedom to retain impunity and keep the profits of crime. and why is the commission waiting to urge member states to stop the sale of ‘golden visas’, which, besides being immoral, are obviously the source of the importation of organised crime into the eu? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, first of all it is a great pleasure to have a woman prime minister at the head of the eu presidency. welcome, madam prime minister. let me tell you that your programme seems promising. but i would like to underline the main expectations and the main objectives of the s&d group. we think we need a turning point in europe. we need a big push for investments, and that is why we need to commit these funds for strategic investment as soon as possible – at the latest by june, as is being proposed by president juncker. you can count on us for this, but you know very well that you need more national contributions to make this fund really work. let me underline that i believe that investments should be driven by a powerful vision for a competitive economy in europe, focusing on citizens’ well-being. we need new products and new services, and this also applies to the digital agenda. the digital agenda should become a leverage for well-being in europe by providing new solutions. last but not least, do not forget about jobs and quality jobs. in the end, europe must remain a continent of high-quality jobs, for our young people but also for those who are in long-term unemployment.
mr president, latvia is presented to us as an example of success, but it is an example which we do not wish for anyone, let alone for the people of this country. in the wake of the 2008 crisis, the government, following the guidelines of the european union, imposed a draconian austerity plan on the people. he fired a third of the public servants, closed schools, hospitals, cut wages by 30%, brutally raised taxes. as a result of these measures, the country lost a quarter of its wealth in two years, lost 5% of its population with a forced emigration of more than 40 000 young people in 2010 alone! i ask you, is this the model of austerity which has done so much harm to your people that you want to impose on the other member states? in his priorities he talks about the competitiveness of the economy and foreign policy. the consequences of the intervention of the european union and nato in ukraine are well known. we are now paying a huge bill importing what ukraine was exporting to russia, paying the gas bills and making loans after loans. i'd like to know what your assessment of this adventure is.
mr president, in the european year of development, the priority given by the latvian presidency to the digital agenda is to be welcomed. some people look at digital as a strictly technological platform. it's not a good idea. it is on the energy and digital platform that the european union must find answers to our challenges of growth, employment, connectivity and security. the european union has been a loser in the technological cycle which is now coming to an end. so we were exposed, economically and socially, and we were diverted to the geostrategic periphery. the new technological cycle is an opportunity, an opportunity in terms of security, an opportunity in terms of cybersecurity, an opportunity in terms of data protection, an opportunity to create more transparency, market regulation, taxation, an opportunity for the creation of new products, new services that generate wealth, generate employment. madam president, the success of your agenda will also be the success of the european year of development and will have implications within and outside the european union. the greatest happiness.
madam prime minister, welcome. we have heard here today the main priority areas for the latvian presidency, one of which is a more competitive european union to support growth, greater welfare for citizens and more future development. we cannot agree more on these objectives. i would like to refer to a legislative proposal for which i am rapporteur and which concerns these points: the directive on the transparency of measures regulating the prices of medicinal products for human use, to which you make no reference. my colleague sophia von der veld is right when she says that there are many legislative proposals blocked in the council. the aim of this directive, madam president-in-office, is to give patients quicker access to innovative medicines, thereby improving their well-being. the aim is to speed up the entry of generic medicines onto the market, which means lower costs for national health systems. it also involves reducing the burden of red tape on companies in an industrial sector which is strategic for european competitiveness. i would remind you, madam prime minister, that the european parliament has already taken its position at first reading and that in this parliament, i and my colleagues... (the president cut the speaker off)
the terrorist attacks in paris have led to the latvian presidency making a horizontal priority of something that should always be at the heart of the union's action: the defence of european values. the presidency has also made it a priority to resolve the pnr dossier, which i think is already more debatable. it should be recalled that over the past few years the eu has adopted a number of instruments to combat terrorism. in particular, since 2001, we have paid particular attention to this phenomenon. the commission has also been active in the field of asylum and immigration since the beginning of the year. in addition to the various proposals already under discussion, the latvian presidency has identified as a priority the review of the european internal security strategy, which will identify the challenges, principles and guidelines within the european union. i hope that the presidency will maintain a balanced approach and not, in the name of security, call into question the very value it is intended to protect: freedom. if, in the name of fighting terrorism, we accept limiting our freedoms, we are giving the terrorists the victory they dream of: destroying our societies and the values that define us.
the new latvian presidency of the council aims to focus its activity on the major proposals that will be presented by the european commission in the first half of 2015, especially with regard to the new investment plan, the digital single market or the creation of the energy union. i believe that it is time to move towards the full integration of the digital market, which will allow for significant efficiency gains. the budget is about eur 260 billion per year and a 4% increase in gdp by 2020. i would also like to stress that special attention should be paid to the iberian peninsula in the context of the creation of the energy union, since portugal has renewable energy production capacity which it can export to the whole of europe if the necessary interconnections are established.
blue-card question. – mr tannock, i very much agree and i laud your call for cooperation, intelligence-sharing and a strategic vision to fight terrorism, which is something that can only be done by working together. but do you know, this is something we are not doing in one of the frontlines – probably a main frontline – of fighting terrorists, namely iraq. i and another three meps have just come back from northern iraq, and we saw that the eu has no real presence there. it is not coordinating there because some of our member states, including your country, refuse that coordination, whether military support to the fight against isis or humanitarian assistance, development assistance and other elements. we are not fighting terrorism there.
in writing. – the terror attacks in paris exposed failure in countering terrorism, which has much to do with the lack of europe: lack of cooperation in ‘human intelligence’, lack of integrated policies to prevent radicalisation of young people, not to mention the austerity policies which fuel unemployment, social marginalisation and alienation – fields where terrorist organisations recruit. some member states bear more responsibility than others for blocking eu cooperation under cfsp and csdp – including for double standards and grave mistakes in external action which feed the narrative of terrorists – just think of gaza! in iraqi kurdistan where four of us, members of this parliament, were last week, many people expressed their grief over the paris terror, which they saw as linked to the suffering iraqis are daily enduring at the hands of isis. and they did not fail to note that those we call ‘foreign fighters’ are indeed european young people: over 3 000 of them in isis ranks, massacring non-sunni muslims and yazidi, christian, shabbak, kurdish and other minorities in iraq and syria! we have a collective responsibility and must work together and act strategically and coherently in fighting terrorism. that is why we desperately need cfsp and csdp.
the nigerian government has been unable or unwilling to stop the escalation of atrocities by boko haram who massacre entire villages, kidnap children and now horribly use them as human bombs. the fight against boko haram, as the name itself suggests, cannot be isolated from what we have to do against other groups of the terrorist hydra that attacked last week in paris. and against the organized crime networks that support the terrorists. we need to activate the common security and defence policy to assume our collective responsibilities to help the people of nigeria, our acp partner country, to eradicate boko haram. we need the cfsp to make europe's voice heard in the security council and to make it clear that the responsibility to protect must urgently be exercised in nigeria, with the support of the african union and the neighbours also affected. boko haram is a threat to the peace and security of africa and to the peace and security of the world. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer. – do you know that many of the people who are stranded in libya trying to reach europe’s shores have come all the way from nigeria to escape this kind of phenomenon? i share ms mogherini’s view that this is all linked. and if we think that we can conceal ourselves and protect ourselves in fortress europe, instead of trying to go and help those who are our partners and who are fighting the same terrorist hydra that creates a lot of problems inside europe but also for our partners, we will be doomed.
the official version of the european parliament on the history of the situation in ukraine does not correspond to reality. to the most distracted it may seem that it is not, but those who have opposed the coup in ukraine today are falling victim to violence, to the restriction of freedoms and rights, imposed by fascist forces that are now linked to the ukrainian authorities and police and security forces - the officers and the mercenaries. has anyone here heard of the massacre in odessa on 2 may or the arson attacks on the headquarters of opposition parties, the bill that the ukrainian parliament is discussing today to outlaw only ideologies with which it does not agree? has there not been talk here of the murder and torture of those who opposed the authorities after the coup? do you not remember the phone call from baroness ashton and the estonian minister in which he warned her that the snipers would be linked to the so-called maidan movement and not yanukovych and that she ignored? all this was not necessary just because they wanted to sign the free trade agreement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the international community is called upon to take important decisions at this year's summits for new goals and targets for the period 2015 with regard to development policy, and the challenge we face is clear. the european union, to live up to its values, must take the lead in shaping the global development policy agenda, but there is no such thing as leadership without example. the european union cannot lead if, on the pretext of budgetary constraints, it wants to fall behind in its financial commitments or evade concrete commitments, and therefore what i ask the commissioner is whether, even before the addis ababa conference, the european union will be able to reaffirm its commitment to 0.7% of gross national income for development aid. that's what we're hoping for. maybe you can't ask for more, but you can't take less.
the european year of development comes at a key time when it will be necessary to take stock of the achievement of the millennium development goals. it will also be necessary to take stock of the programme for change, adopted in 2011, and of the concrete results of the reforms announced at that time. no one denies the important role of the european union in development. what is in question are the results and the methods. according to available information, most of the millennium development goals fall short of the targets, despite some progress. this european year should serve to inform, enlighten and mobilise european citizens for this cause. citizens, millions of these citizens who have been unemployed and have been pushed below the poverty line by austerity policies that affect the majority of the population and concentrate wealth and income in the hands of a minority. we can't give with one hand and take away with the other. we cannot help the palestinian people and their government and then allow israeli bombs to destroy schools built with european funds. we must also cancel the debt to the third world.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. egypt is going through a difficult and unstable process and therefore things cannot be seen in black and white. we can all identify the threats that are being posed to democratic rights in egypt, namely freedom of expression or freedom of assembly, as the vice-president herself has mentioned, but we have to learn from the lessons of the past and especially from the last four years in this region and i think that lessons must be drawn from recent events and the first of the lessons is to avoid giving lessons. we must know that the future of egypt is necessarily in the hands and decisions of the egyptian people. in this transitional process, which the european union can and must obviously support, it can support as an intermediary, as an intermediary if the parties so wish, an intermediary to try to promote the establishment of social peace. i understand that holding parliamentary elections is a positive step, but we must bear in mind that this organization is primarily the responsibility of the egyptians. we certainly have common objectives and the vice-president has mentioned them, and well, our question is how best to support and not to get into a process of interference. i think we must safeguard the right of the egyptian people to decide their own destiny. but i also want to stress, madam vice-president, in closing, your deep respect for this house, for all the hours you have spent here debating with us. it is indeed an honour to be able to count on the european commission to treat us as it is treating us here today.
after four years of illusions, with countless atrocities committed against the population, we have again at the head of the most populous arab nation those who, in practice, have never stopped ruling in egypt. the egyptian armed forces are, in fact, the most powerful institution in the country and the west knows this. it is no accident that the egyptian regime has been largely supported by the united states with an average annual subsidy of 1.8 billion dollars that has lasted for decades. only israel and colombia receive more. while the government goes shopping to supply its army, the people are hungry for bread and thirsty for democracy and social rights. our appeal is that you let those people decide their future and stop supporting local oligarchies based on the geostrategic interests of the west.
the importance of egypt makes it natural that we should follow its situation with concern. some of the problems that led to the spring revolution of january 2011 still prevail in this secular nation. indeed, high youth unemployment, unemployment of women, growing poverty, high illiteracy, religious tensions and the doubts and serious concerns expressed by the international community about the general state of democracy and the rule of law are still part of the reality of the most populous arab country. however, and despite this scenario, we look with hope to the future of egypt and the egyptians. firstly, because we are shortly to hold legislative elections, which always means opening up new windows of opportunity in a context of greater political stability. secondly, because there is evidence of an economic recovery that could lead to gdp growth of 3.5% in 2015. the egyptian authorities are now expected to respect scrupulously the universal principles to which they have committed themselves, and we naturally expect the european union, through the high representative, to keep a close eye on the electoral process and to pay greater attention to the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy.
the egyptian leadership has a choice to make: either integrate into the international community as a rule of law and a responsible actor in the middle east and north africa region or maintain an oppressive state of its people, imprisoning journalists, including those from al jazeera, political and human rights activists, homosexuals, while freeing the corrupt dictator mubarak. egypt may have a constitution today that speaks about human rights, minority rights, women's rights, but that constitution is not being implemented. these basic rights are being grossly and massively violated. justice doesn't work independently. in the mediterranean, and beyond, we would well need a strong, influential, credible egypt. but you can't do that by strangling democracy. on the contrary, each mubarak makes his own morsi and they will reappear sooner or later. the european choice is more for more. the downside is, it's less for less. we will all be lost in the mediterranean and beyond if the greatness of the pharaohs, the islamic enlightenment of al-azhar, the hope reborn in tahrir square, is little left in egypt today, gagged by general al-sisi.
mr president, madam ombudsman, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i share the opinion of my colleagues, madam ombudsman, and in particular that of my colleague mr wałęsa, who congratulated you on the excellent work you have done. i would like to remember your predecessor, nikiforos diamandouros, who left us an extraordinary legacy. the institution you represent is of the utmost importance. the proper functioning of public administration is not only a fundamental pillar of a democratic system, but also a right of our citizens, and the fact that over 23 000 citizens have turned to the ombudsman is a testament not only to this importance but also to the trust they place in him. in 2013, i was very pleased to see the special report on frontex, which should serve as an encouragement for the systemic approach it intends to adopt in certain investigations. in fact, i am very much looking forward to the results of your strategy for 2019. it was, however, transparency issues that dominated 2013. we recently saw with europol that these problems persisted in 2014. i therefore hope that your future work will be intensely devoted to this subject. i cannot agree more with you that it is intolerable that international agreements allow third states to limit the powers of our institutions, powers which are laid down in the treaties, or to create obstacles to the free exercise of their powers. i hope you'll continue to work diligently. thank you, sir. keep up the good work.
on behalf of the s&d group. in october 2013 this parliament adopted a resolution, of which i was rapporteur, on the impact of corruption on human rights. in it we proposed to broaden the definition of human rights defenders in the european union guidelines to make it extended to anti-corruption activists such as aleksej navalny, who have courageously consistently exposed corruption within the highest levels of the russian state apparatus and the putin oligarchy. the conviction of the navalny brothers, part of the strategy used by the russian authorities to use laws and courts to silence opponents and civil society, reaffirms the need to support those who denounce corruption both in europe and abroad. today we are calling for a strategy by the european union and its member states to promote democratic principles and the rule of law in russia. in my view, this will have to include a magnitsky act, now extended to the conviction of the navalny brothers. a law that establishes lists of officials, prosecutors and judges, who, in violation of their constitutional obligations, fabricate charges and convict activists. this law should impose specific sanctions, such as a visa ban in the european union and the freezing of any financial assets that they or their close family members hold in european union countries.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to express my dismay and my disgust at the attack by the taliban movement in pakistan, which on 16 december killed 148 people, 130 of them schoolchildren, at a school in peshawar. this appalling terrorist attack - one of the bloodiest in pakistan's history - has been followed by more than 800 other attacks on schools in pakistan. the education of young people, and girls in particular, is crucial to the development of pakistani society and economy. education is also essential to prevent the radicalisation of society. i therefore want to commend the swedish academy for the nobel prize in awarding this prize to the pakistani girl malala. i believe that the pakistani government must take effective measures to ensure the safety of schools and to prevent bullying and terror. this massacre was followed by the tragic events in france and now the human slaughter carried out by boko haram terrorists in baga, nigeria. the fight against fundamentalist terrorism is a european and international problem. i therefore call for a reinforced international commitment to cooperation in the prevention of the fight against terrorism and the defence of human rights and democratic values.
in writing. we are open to freedom of thought. friendship and unity are in our hearts. the land of kyrgyzstan, our native state, shining in the rays of consent. these are some of the verses that we can hear in the kyrgyz anthem. what a contradiction with the recent bill passed in the first reading by the parliament of that country. if adopted, the proposed legislation will constitute a significant step back not only in the process of opening up to the lgbt community, but also in the safeguarding of human rights that still distinguishes kyrgyzstan from other neighboring countries. the right to transparency and freedom of expression in the lgbt community needs to be supported. we must encourage kyrgyzstan not to back down in protecting these fundamental rights, but to strengthen them.
mr president, we are going to vote on the urgent resolutions on human rights, but there is also another case that i would like to call to the attention of the president of parliament. an urgent intervention is required to stop the flogging of raif badawi in saudi arabia. this is illegal. this is barbaric. this is medieval. (sustained applause)
in writing. i congratulate ms emily o'reilly on the excellent work she is doing as ombudsman and pay tribute to her predecessor who has left a very positive legacy. the number of citizens who have recourse to the ombudsman is proof that its existence is known and respected. i believe, however, that we must continue to work to make this powerful instrument for the defence of european citizens more visible. i recognise that the european commission is the institution most closely scrutinized by citizens, but it cannot be overlooked that more than half of the cases that reach the ombudsman relate to this institution alone. i also agree with mrs o'reilly's reaction to the unacceptable limitation of the ombudsman's powers of inquiry at europol. i hope the ombudsman will not resign himself to the idea that the treaties can be revised or amended by means of international agreements.
in writing. 23 245 citizens sought help from the ombudsman's services in 2013, 19 418 citizens received advice through the interactive guide on the ombudsman's website, while 1407 requests consisted of requests for information, were registered as complaints 2420 requests (2442 in 2012) and 2354 actions were taken by the ombudsman in relation to complaints received in 2013. considers it important that the ombudsman provides more detailed information on the types of complaint format, so as to make it possible to make comparisons over the years between complaints received in electronic format via the ombudsman's interactive website and complaints received offline; i therefore congratulate emily o'reilly on her first annual report as ombudsman and welcome her approach to maintaining a positive cooperation and working relationship with parliament, in particular with its committee on petitions.
in writing. in 2013, the ombudsman recorded 23 245 contacts made by citizens who used his services through the ombudsman's portal. the vast majority (19 418) received online support through the interactive guide available on the ombudsman's website. the remaining contacts concerned requests for information (1 407) which the ombudsman's services replied to or complaints (2 420). in presenting his annual report to the committee on petitions, the ombudsman outlined his new strategy, towards 2019. this strategy is based on three main concepts: impact, relevance and visibility. based on these concepts, the ombudsman intends to carry out more strategic investigations into systemic problems (impact), to strengthen the ombudsman's role by contributing to key eu debates (relevance) and to increase the visibility of the institution itself by promoting its intervention with stakeholders and by drawing attention to important cases (visibility). in order to promote transparency, it is recommended that investigations of significant public interest be initiated. a close observation of the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership would therefore strengthen the ombudsman's role as the guardian of eu transparency.
this own-initiative report is an analysis of the work carried out by the european ombudsman in 2013. as the current ombudsman emily o'reilly only took office on 30 september 2014, this document focuses on the work of her predecessor nikiforos diamandouros. the european parliament considers it important that the annual reports drawn up by the ombudsman express concrete figures of citizens' requests, whether they relate to contacts only, or to requests for support and/or complaints. under articles 20, 24 and 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the european ombudsman is competent to receive complaints about possible maladministration in the activities of the institutions and bodies of the european union, acting on his own initiative or on the basis of complaints lodged by eu citizens. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i support the new strategy towards 2019, based on these three premises: impact, relevance and visibility.
in writing. the european ombudsman has presented to parliament, in accordance with rule 220 of parliament's rules of procedure, the report on his activities in 2013. i note that transparency issues once again top the list of cases handled in 2013, alongside issues of ethics, citizens' participation in the union's decision-making process, fundamental rights and the culture of service. i welcome the new strategy presented by the ombudsman, road to 2019, which is based on three main concepts: impact, relevance and visibility and the publication of a new version of the european code of good administrative behaviour and i also welcome the opening of the inquiry into the lack of transparency in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) as well as emily o'reilly's aspiration to make the institution of the ombudsman as accessible as possible. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the presentation of the european ombudsman's annual report for 2013 and congratulate emily o'reilly on her approach to maintaining a positive working relationship and cooperation with parliament. i also pay tribute to professor nikiforos diamandouros, who retired in 2013, for the legacy he left as european ombudsman. i believe that the noble role of the ombudsman should be to support the strengthening of structures and institutions for accountability and transparency at european level, promoting the good administration and quality of democracy that european citizens deserve, because it is to them that his work is directed. a final word of appreciation for the ombudsman's new strategy towards 2019, based on three main pillars aimed at solving systemic problems, under the triad of impact, relevance and visibility; finally, i would just like to welcome the importance of the european citizens' initiative, which will bring about greater direct involvement of citizens in the decision-making process related to the preparation of european legislation.
in writing. the vast majority of open inquiries (64.3%) concern the european commission (a significant increase, in 2012 they accounted for 52.7%). the commission notes that the 2013 annual report is a good indicator of the progress made in the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration. we believe that transparency, openness, access to information, respect for citizens' rights and high ethical values are essential to generating and maintaining trust between citizens and residents and the institutions. however, the report takes an apologetic approach to the european commission's action, attempting to justify the large number of complaints received, and takes the same position on the complaints concerning frontex, ttip and the revolving door issue (the transfer of public sector officials to private sector jobs closely linked to their previous functions and vice versa), which we strongly criticise.
in writing. the ombudsman opened 350 inquiries, 341 of which were based on complaints and 9 on his own initiative. the vast majority (64,3%) concerns the european commission (a significant increase from 52,7% in 2012). the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes. although transparency, openness, access to information, respect for citizens' rights and high ethical values are considered essential to generate and maintain trust between citizens and residents and institutions, there is a legalistic approach that covers up the action of institutions such as the european commission (and the policy it carries out in the framework of the troika) or frontex, which daily infringes the rights of migrants and refugees by deporting them to their countries of origin, policies that are at the heart of the action of these institutions and that do not happen for accidental reasons. we still voted in favour.
in writing. i agree with the dramatic nature of the situation in libya (2 governments, 2 armies) and with the evidence that there is no military solution to the conflict. i support the pressure of the high representative who, on behalf of the eu, is conveying the message that this is the last chance for a negotiated and peaceful solution under the auspices of the un. i agree with the suggestion that the african union and the arab league should be invited to play a more active and constructive role. i support specific sanctions, including asset freezes and travel bans, against those responsible for armed violence and human rights abuses and violations, and for a boycott of un-led negotiations. i also share the great concern about the growing presence of terrorist groups linked to al-qaeda or the militias of the self-styled islamic state and other extremist organisations and movements in libya.
libya continues to be embroiled in internal political struggles that have turned into a violent power struggle between two rival seats of government and numerous competing factions of nationalist, islamist, tribal and regional forces, resulting in increased suffering of the civilian population, deaths, mass displacement and a widespread humanitarian crisis. the latest wave of clashes has caused the internal displacement of at least 400 000 libyans, forcing another 150 000 people, including many migrant workers, to leave the country, and it is estimated that over a million libyans are already in tunisia. i condemn this escalation of violence in libya, particularly against civilians, and support the un-mediated talks. it is essential that all parties to violent acts commit to an unconditional ceasefire and refrain from further divisive actions.
in writing. since the fall of the gaddafi regime, libya has not found stability. libya is facing an escalation of fighting between armed groups, including attacks on civilians and private property, which involve massive human rights violations. i must condemn the escalation of violence, especially against the population and civilian institutions, the parties to the conflict must immediately cease all acts of violence and agree to a ceasefire in order to end the escalation of suffering of the population and to begin an inclusive national political dialogue, to create a state based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the eu must make every effort to achieve this objective.
the political situation in libya, following the so-called arab spring, has led to ongoing conflict and violence that many have already termed a civil war. the situation pitting different factions and rival groups against each other has led not only to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in the country, but also to mass migration movements of libyan citizens. there is now a real risk of a three-way split in the country if a compromise is not reached between the parties to the conflict. the emergence of two parallel governments and parliaments is an example of this. in addition, tripoli and benghazi are partially controlled by militias, with the presence of isil members confirmed. amongst many other reasons, but above all for the reasons set out here, i support the un mission in libya and its efforts to reach a compromise and the immediate implementation of the sanctions already approved by the union. i consider it essential that the union continue its humanitarian, financial and political aid and that the member states support in every possible way the asylum seekers and refugees from libya.
in writing. in february 2011, the outbreak of civil war led to the overthrow of the gaddafi regime. although national legislative elections were held in june 2014, the truth is that the democratic aspirations of the libyan people have been held back by political division and violence. in fact, libya continues to be embroiled in internal political struggles that have turned into a violent power struggle between two rival seats of government and numerous competing factions, resulting in increased suffering of the civilian population, deaths, mass displacement and a humanitarian crisis. the libyan crisis threatens to destabilise the whole region in the near future and is also a threat to the security of europe. i therefore join the call to the warring parties to commit to an unconditional ceasefire and to join the efforts of the united nations special representative for libya, bernardino león, to initiate an inclusive national political dialogue that can lead to reconciliation and the formation of a government of national unity. equally important is ensuring accountability for all human rights violations and providing humanitarian, financial and political assistance to respond to the humanitarian crisis and the suffering of the population.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution which strongly condemns the recent wave of attacks by militias and terrorist groups, which seriously jeopardise the possibility of a peaceful solution and the resumption of the process of transition to democracy in this country. the gravity of the conflict is generating not only a deepening of political polarization but also a profound humanitarian crisis, which requires the search for solutions based on political dialogue, preferably with the support of the un support mission in libya, in order to achieve a definitive ceasefire and concrete steps towards the implementation of an effective democracy in strict respect of the rule of law and the protection of the civil and human rights of the population. i therefore support the need for the european union and the international community to continue to provide humanitarian, financial and political aid to libya and to continue to support efforts to combat terrorism, which is a threat to stability and security not only in libya but also in the maghreb regions, the middle east and indeed in europe as a whole, as recent events in france and belgium have shown.
the situation in libya is catastrophic and reveals the true nature of the foreign policy of the eu and the western powers. for these, there are no human rights, no democracy. there are only their economic and geostrategic interests. for the western powers, the yardstick used to measure democracy and human rights is based on greater or lesser submission to their interests. although the gaddafi regime has been in power for several decades, it was only when it ceased to serve the interests of the great powers that it became a dictator to be shot. in the name of immoral values, a country has been destroyed and a whole region destabilized. it's divide and rule. in the name of these interests thousands of innocent people have died and continue to die. tens of thousands have had their lives destroyed and are wandering around looking for help. capitalism is not the end of the story. one day, the people will take their destiny in their hands and know how to build another system that ends exploitation and war.
in writing. it would be naïve to think that the forces that dominate the ep and that supported the implementation of the so-called no-fly zone in libya, paving the way for nato aggression in 2011, could make their way. they can't. it is their nature to promote interference in the internal affairs of countries and the violation of their sovereignty by denying the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination, to promote aggression and war, occupation, the violation of international law and the un charter, a character which is reiterated once again in this resolution. the record of crimes in which it is complicit includes the deaths of thousands of innocent civilians, a humanitarian crisis, massive destruction of infrastructure, the total destabilisation of the libyan state, a state of chaos and an ongoing civil war. libya is a country destroyed by the internal struggle of various extreme right-wing and obscurantist, racist and xenophobic groups, encouraged and supported by nato and the eu, the same groups that the majority of the ep hypocritically warns of the threat they pose to the eu, the same groups that yesterday were its allies when it came to laying their hands on the oil resources of the former african oil producer.
in writing. i agree that the european parliament should unequivocally express its solidarity with the ukrainian people and support their independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, inviolability of borders and the european option. i also condemn the acts of terrorism and the criminal behaviour of the separatists, as well as the presence of military forces outside ukraine and operating on its territory in flagrant violation of its borders. i agree with the need to maintain the current eu sanctions regime as long as russia does not fully respect and fulfil its obligations under minsk. i support the non-recognition of the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. i also support the international investigation into the circumstances of the tragic crash of malaysia airlines flight mh17, so that those responsible can be brought to justice.
in writing. the situation in ukraine remains fraught with the continued violation of the ceasefire of 5 september 2014 by separatists and russian forces, with russia continuing to support separatist militias through a steady flow of military equipment, mercenaries and regular russian units, including combat tanks, sophisticated anti-aircraft systems and artillery. this armed conflict has already resulted in thousands of military and civilian deaths, a large number of wounded and several hundred thousand people have been forced to flee their homes, most of them to russia, and the situation in the conflict zone is a cause for great concern from both a humanitarian and a public health point of view. there are reports of widespread human rights abuses. the ukrainian people therefore deserve my solidarity, and it is essential that the european institutions condemn the acts of terrorism and the criminal behaviour of the separatists and other irregular forces in eastern ukraine, as well as the aggressive and expansionist policy of russia, which constitutes a threat to the unity and independence of ukraine and to the european union itself.
in writing. i am particularly concerned about the situation in ukraine. i consider it a strategic country in europe, which has been successively harmed by russia. the eu cannot ignore the escalation of the military conflict in eastern ukraine, where russian military personnel are known to be fighting ukrainian forces alongside separatist rebels. the eu's foreign policy must be at the forefront of unequivocal support for ukraine in the development of a peace plan. we must support the government and the president who were elected in the last elections and help them to keep ukraine united and sovereign. the eu must maintain good neighbourly relations with russia, but must not be intimidated by its threats against ukraine. we must be uncompromising in defending the sovereignty of ukraine, even if this means extending the economic embargo against russia.
ukraine held parliamentary elections, resulting in a new government formed by pro-european forces with a constitutional majority. a coalition agreement has already been adopted, laying the foundations for a rigorous reform process aimed at fostering further european integration. i believe it is time for russia to stop supporting the separatist forces in the easternmost territories, in particular in donetsk and luhansk, and to withdraw definitively from crimea, which it has clearly illegally annexed. i would like to support the sanctions measures adopted by the international community, stressing that the maintenance, strengthening or reversibility of the eu's restrictive measures must depend on the attitude of russia itself and the situation in ukraine. finally, i would like to express my full solidarity and support for the ukrainian people and the economic and political reforms which are being implemented to modernise the country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the crisis in ukraine and the state of eu-russia relations as i consider that, in view of the fact that the ceasefire of 5 september 2014 is being systematically violated by the separatists and by russian forces, it is necessary to call on the parties to make every effort to fully and in good faith implement the minsk protocol and to call on russia to immediately withdraw all military assets and all its forces from ukraine and to cease all direct or indirect support for the actions of the separatist militias. in this sense, the current eu sanctions regime against russia should be maintained until moscow is prepared to change its current policy and actively contribute to a peaceful solution to the ukrainian crisis. i also join in the demonstration of solidarity with ukraine and its people and welcome the reformist commitment of the ukrainian authorities to closer relations with the eu.
in writing. on 26 october 2014, ukrainians voted in favour of a government that is committed to deepening relations with the eu, in an election characterised by a diversity of candidatures and respect for fundamental freedoms. the elected parliamentary majority is now in a position to introduce amendments to the constitution and to implement the package of reforms needed to boost ukraine's european vocation. however, this objective is strongly opposed by russia and pro-russian separatist movements. it is therefore urgent to respond effectively to this terrible conflict by condemning russia's aggressive and expansionist policy, which constitutes a threat to the unity and independence of ukraine, and by demanding that it fulfil its obligations and implement the minsk agreements in their entirety, in accordance with the principles of good faith, the rule of law and the applicable international provisions to which russia is committed. as regards the reforms to be undertaken by ukraine, i believe it is essential now that the commission helps to draw up a plan for ukraine which includes a strong humanitarian action plan and priorities for state-building measures, tangible criteria and a timetable for their implementation.
the situation in ukraine reveals the eu's position vis-à-vis the united states and nato. without regard for european interests, the eu embarked on an adventure through which it promoted an unconstitutional coup and broke centuries-old economic and cultural ties between ukraine and russia. the result is in sight. agents exporting to russia are heavily penalized. we're unnecessarily importing ukrainian exports that were destined for russia. we're paying off the gas bills that ukraine has defaulted on to russian companies. finally, we are now on the third loan to the ukrainian government which is sinking by the day. to top it off, we have a government where fascist parties are repeatedly violating civil and democratic rights. it persecutes activists, seeks to outlaw political parties and bombs defenseless civilian populations. the balance could not, in fact, be worse.
in writing. this resolution spreads a grossly manipulated view of the situation in ukraine, an act of propaganda which, instead of contributing to the appeasement of existing tensions and contributing to the resolution of the conflict in the donbass region, adds fuel to the fire. it also highlights the eu, us and nato's responsibilities in promoting the aggression of the ultra-nationalist and fascist regime against popular and patriotic resistance and the crimes perpetrated against the population and the destruction of basic civil infrastructure. it is urgent to find a solution to the conflict through direct dialogue between the parties, which must include recognition of the belligerent status of popular resistance, with a view to establishing a real and inclusive peace process and the inalienable right to resist oppression. in order to legitimise the coup regime in ukraine and the actions of those who, like the eu, support and promote it - the signing of the eu-ukraine association agreement is recalled - it is concealed that the elections following the coup took place in a context of permanent violations of civil and political rights, with widespread persecution and repression of the population, particularly the communist party of ukraine, with a legal process of illegalization underway.
in writing. i believe that the government of egypt should pay more attention to the european union and the international community as we express deep concern about the current restrictions on fundamental democratic rights, in particular on freedoms of expression, association and assembly, political pluralism and the rule of law in egypt. we cannot but condemn in the strongest terms the use of excessive violence against protesters by public authorities, security forces and services. i urge egypt to ratify the rome statute and become a member of the icc and not to hesitate to promote prompt, impartial and independent judicial investigations into allegations of excessive use of force, ill-treatment and other human rights violations, including sexual abuse, committed by police forces during demonstrations. i agree with the eu-wide ban on exports to egypt of intrusion and surveillance technologies that could be used for spying and repression of citizens.
in writing. freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are essential pillars of a democratic and pluralistic society. since the military coup of june 2013, the egyptian government has carried out a large-scale campaign of arbitrary detention, harassment, intimidation and censorship against government critics solely for exercising their rights to freedom of assembly, association and expression, which has included journalists, human rights defenders and political opponents, notably from the muslim brotherhood. more than 40,000 people were detained in an unprecedented wave of arrests, and around 1,400 protesters were killed as a result of the excessive use of force by security forces. the importance which the eu attaches to its cooperation with egypt leads me to express my solidarity with the egyptian people and to stress my commitment to continuing to support egypt in the process of strengthening its democratic institutions, respect for and defence of human rights and the promotion of social justice and security. however, i cannot but express my deep concern at the current restrictions on fundamental democratic rights, in particular on freedom of expression, association and assembly, political pluralism and the rule of law in egypt.
in writing. egypt is the largest arab country, a key country in the southern mediterranean region, an important trading partner of the eu and one of the main beneficiaries of eu aid. political, economic and social developments in this country have important consequences for the whole region. we must condemn the clashes and the killings that have taken place. it is necessary to appeal to all those involved to realize that it is imperative to put an end to the fighting so that egypt can return to normalcy and its people are no longer affected. we must reiterate our deep solidarity with the people of egypt and continue to support their legitimate democratic aspirations and their efforts to ensure a peaceful and democratic transition to political, economic and social reforms. our efforts must lead to an end to the confrontation in egypt and the opening of a new road to peace and democracy.
in writing. after the first signs of winds of change, the so-called arab spring, which took place in 2011 in a number of countries in the mediterranean and middle east region, has not brought the desired rule of law to these fragile societies. an example of this is egypt. the 2013 coup d'état brought to power president abdel fattah al-sissi, who has been accused of ongoing arbitrary detentions, intimidation, and violations of freedom of expression and assembly. the un and several international voices have already condemned the lack of independence of the judicial system as reflected in the media case of the three al-jazeera television journalists arrested a year ago and convicted for supporting the muslim brotherhood - a political movement classified internally as terrorist. the persecution and permanent detention of homosexuals, the increase in the number of cases of violence against women and the practice of female genital mutilation are clear signs of violations of fundamental rights in an increasingly polarized society. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution and the adoption of a common strategy for egypt, based on the principle of conditionality and the financial support needed for genuine democratic reform.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which takes account of the serious situation in egypt, where since the military coup of june 2013 there has been a campaign of arbitrary detention, intimidation and censorship against journalists, human rights defenders and political opponents. in this regard, the egyptian government should be called upon to put an end to these acts and to commit to ensuring respect for and defence of the rule of law, political pluralism and fundamental rights, including freedom of expression, association and assembly, as well as to ensuring fair and impartial trials, prompt investigation of allegations of excessive use of force, ill-treatment and other human rights violations and the punishment of those responsible. egypt is a long-standing strategic partner of the eu and its important role in stability in the region is noteworthy. the eu is therefore committed to continuing to support egypt in the process of strengthening its democratic institutions. such support is, however, dependent on the cooperation of the egyptian authorities, who must ensure that the necessary political and democratic obligations and conditions are met.
in writing. as i have stated in this debate, we look with concern and some unease at the current situation in egypt, as unfortunately the set of problems that led to the spring 2011 revolution are largely prevalent in the society, economy and political-administrative organisation of this secular nation, namely: high youth and women's unemployment; persistent poverty; low literacy rate; religious tensions fuelled by extremist groups; terrorist attacks; the doubts and serious concerns expressed by the international community about the overall state of democracy, the holding of mass trials and the use of the death penalty. i think, however, that we can look to the future of egypt and egyptians with some hope, because we will soon have legislative elections - which always implies opening new windows of opportunity for the people and because there is evidence of an economic recovery that could lead the gdp of the most populous arab nation to grow by 3.5% in 2015. the european union is also calling on the egyptian authorities to take a proactive approach to implementing the recently adopted constitutional amendments, stressing that we will continue to be vigilant, particularly in the run-up to the elections and in the context of the implementation in egypt of the concrete measures contained in the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. after four years of illusions, with countless atrocities committed against the population, we are again at the head of the most populous arab nation, those who, in practice, have never stopped ruling in egypt. the egyptian armed forces are, in fact, the most powerful institution in the country and the west knows this. it is no accident that the egyptian regime has been largely supported by the united states with an average annual subsidy of 1.8 billion dollars that has lasted for decades. only israel and colombia receive more. while the government goes shopping to supply its army, the people are hungry for bread and thirsty for democracy and social rights. we call on you to let those people decide their future and to stop supporting local oligarchies in the interests of western geostrategic interests.
in writing. i agree with the conclusions of this resolution. a just solution must be found to the situation experienced by the two italian marines. india must respect the human rights of the two italians and find a way quickly to return them to freedom. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. in 2012, the indian fishing vessel st. anthony approached the italian merchant ship enrica lexie sailing off the coast of kerala state, india. two of the six marines on board opened fire to protect themselves from a possible pirate attack. however, they fatally shot two indian fishermen, who were later detained and arrested by the indian authorities. they are still awaiting indictment today. i believe that the two marines are european citizens and that they were on board an italian merchant ship in international waters fighting piracy, and i believe that they should be repatriated and that the circumstances surrounding the incident should be investigated. i also believe that jurisdiction should be given to the italian authorities and/or to an international arbitration. i would also like to stress the importance of ending this conflict and i hope that the highest possible protection of european citizens will be guaranteed by their diplomatic services, especially when they are detained in any third country.
in writing. on the night of 15 february 2012, an indian fishing vessel approached an italian merchant ship sailing off the coast of kerala state, india. on board were six italian marines whose mission was to protect the ship from possible pirate attacks. during the approach and in fear of an attack, warning shots were fired at the indian vessel, with two indian fishermen fatally wounded. following this incident, the indian authorities detained two marines who were identified as being responsible for opening fire on the fishing vessel. the case has caused diplomatic tensions, and it is particularly worrying that after three years, the indian authorities are still holding the italian marines without any charges being laid. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the parties to make every effort to reach a reasonable and mutually acceptable solution as a matter of urgency, ensuring full respect for the human and legal rights of those allegedly involved.
in writing. i agree with this joint motion for a resolution on the case of the two italian marines, as it seeks to find a swift and definitive solution, in the light of international law, to the impasse of detention without charge to which they are subject, thanks to the deadly incident that killed two indian fishermen on 15 february 2012. i am deeply sorry for the tragic deaths of the two indian fishermen, and i offer my condolences to their families. i believe that after more than two years of this incident, it is urgent to find a final solution to the trial of these two marines, which must include their repatriation, because this impasse is an unacceptable and incomprehensible violation of their human rights. i also hope, as the report adopted today shows, that the jurisdiction to settle this territorial dispute will be given to the italian authorities or to international arbitration, with a view to reaching a reasonable solution, which can be quickly resolved and which is mutually acceptable to the countries and families concerned, and that the eu diplomatic representation will ensure the rights and security of these european citizens in the short term.
following the accident between the italian tanker enrica lexie, with six italian marines on duty to protect against possible pirate attacks, and the indian fishing vessel st. anthony off the coast of kerala (india), in which two fishermen were killed, india confiscated the weapons and arrested the two marines responsible for opening fire on the fishing vessel. the government of india considers that the fatality occurred in waters under indian jurisdiction and that those responsible should be held accountable in indian courts. italy claims that the incident occurred in international waters and that the military should be tried in their country or in an international court. this resolution clearly supports the two italian marines, insisting that they should be repatriated, that restrictions on the free movement of suspects are unacceptable and constitute a serious violation of human rights. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is urged to take the necessary measures to protect the two marines, putting the alleged crime committed by these soldiers into the background.
in writing. in february 2012, the italian oil tanker enrica lexie, with six italian marines deployed for protection against possible pirate attacks, crosses paths with the indian fishing vessel st. anthony off the coast of kerala, india. fearing an attack, the marines fired warning shots at the approaching vessel, and two indian fishermen were fatally wounded. india has confiscated the weapons and arrested the two marines responsible. italy claims that the incident occurred in international waters and that the military should be tried in their country or in an international court. the government of india considers that the fatality occurred in waters under indian jurisdiction and that those responsible should be held accountable in indian courts. this resolution clearly supports the two italian marines, insisting that they should be repatriated, that restrictions on the free movement of suspects are unacceptable and constitute a serious violation of human rights. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is urged to take the necessary measures to protect the two marines. this is clearly a matter that should be negotiated between the authorities of the two countries in order to reach an agreement without outside interference or position-taking.
in writing. i regret that it was not possible to obtain a commitment from the main political groups to vote on an opinion on the commission work programme for 2015. it is true that this exercise has a certain inertia, since some of the measures and initiatives are the result of proposals from the previous commission under the presidency of mr barroso. but it is also true that many of the priorities of the juncker commission are clearly set out in the document and that, for lack of consensus, parliament was unable to vote on a position. the commission's legislative programme thus lacks the most democratic legitimacy that only parliament could grant, and this is not the fault of the commission but the sole responsibility of the parliamentary groups, which have each insisted (unsuccessfully) on the adoption of their own opinion.
the political priorities of the european union must be appropriate to the financial resources available and have a real impact in helping citizens anticipate and react to a rapidly changing society. so in europe, the social market economy model is the one that ensures sustainable growth, not least because it will provide jobs instead of debt for the next generation. that said, i welcome the commission's work programme which is promoting a significant reduction in the administrative burden on citizens and businesses and is focusing on jobs, growth and investment with 23 concrete proposals. reducing the cost of bureaucratic obligations and establishing independent assessments are measures that contribute to eliminating bureaucracy at all levels and for all economic operators and citizens in their daily lives.
in writing. i welcome the commission work programme (wp) for 2015 and believe that a significant reduction in the administrative burden on citizens and businesses can only be achieved by reducing the number of legislative proposals and focusing instead on the major priorities. it is important that the commission presents its work programme for 2015 as soon as possible, demonstrating its willingness to act quickly. i welcome the fact that it focuses on jobs, growth and investment, translating into 23 concrete proposals the political guidelines presented by the commission in november 2014. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the juncker commission aims to focus on major initiatives and be less intrusive in areas where member states have more competence. i would like to congratulate the european commission on this new approach and stress that legislation needs to be done less often and in fewer circumstances, and thus focus on large social and economic areas that really matter and deserve greater support at european level. i congratulate the commission for its intention to present 23 concrete proposals, directly related to the political guidelines already presented in november 2014, to simplify 79 existing legislative initiatives and to eliminate 80 previously submitted proposals which do not meet the juncker priorities or for which there is no agreement in the council or in parliament. i am voting in favour of this epp resolution (b8-0001/2015) because it focuses in a very concrete way on the european commission's priorities for 2015, notably with regard to reducing bureaucracy, adopting the investment plan and making progress in the ttip negotiations, but also because it advocates the early entry into force of the cohesion policy, cap or cfp funds which are so crucial for portugal's economic development and growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution b8-0001/2015 tabled by the epp group on the commission work programme for 2015, considering that the programme should be positively assessed, and in particular welcoming the fact that it proposes a significant reduction in the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, is geared towards employment, growth and investment, includes measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and provides for the revision of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. i regret, however, that it was not possible to reach agreement between the various political groups on the submission of a joint resolution in support of the commission work programme for 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because this work programme presents a set of 23 concrete proposals in relation to the political guidelines previously presented by president juncker for the commission's 2014-2019 mandate. the proposals for 2015, highlighted in the investment plan, which provides for €315 billion to be injected into the european economy between 2015 and 2017, are directed at such essential issues as employment, growth and investment, without neglecting sustainable development, environmental protection and the social economy. i would also remind you, as proposed in the document, that it is essential to avoid wasting resources on obsolete or inadequate legislative proposals which are no longer able to respond to the priorities and concerns of european citizens, and to use taxpayers' money more efficiently by adopting measures to protect the financial interests of the union. finally, i stress and subscribe to the need to implement fully, rapidly and effectively the legislation in force in areas such as the single market, environmental law, the financial and banking sectors, as well as the recently revised common agricultural policy, common fisheries policy and cohesion policy.
in writing. the european commission's work programme is more of the same. it is in direct continuity with all the wrong policies that are at the root of the current economic and social crisis. it proposes three pillars, an investment plan, fiscal responsibility and structural reforms, using new words but with the same logic as ever. on the investment side we have a miraculous exercise in creative accounting which is insufficient and lacks any empirical basis of support capable of being able to give a shred of enthusiasm or optimism. on the other hand, we will continue with austerity and attacks on the welfare state, adding more recession to the crisis. what europe needs is to promote public investment capable of generating cohesion and development. it needs more tax fairness and a better distribution of income that promotes consumption and investment. in short, what is needed is a different process of integration centred on people and not on big capital.
in writing. the absence of a final resolution adopted by the ep majority with its own proposals - alternative or not - shows contradictions with regard to the course to be taken at this time of deep crisis in and within the eu, but does not erase the maintenance of the convergence between the right and social democracy in the eu's basic options. the apparent inaction hides the option for policies that will continue to aggravate existing problems, namely the very high levels of public debt in the countries on the eu's periphery, a consequence of the asymmetrical nature of the integration process whose measures being imposed on countries like portugal - supposedly to cope with it - increase them, while serving as a justification for destroying fundamental rights and achievements of workers and peoples, namely wages, public and universal social security, public health and education. the solution to these problems remains the renegotiation of the debt (with its restructuring and substantial reduction), the creation of a programme for the countries intervened by the troika for which the permanence in the euro has become unbearable, the start of a process of dissolving emu, the extinction of the stability pact, with its replacement by a pact for social progress and sustainable development.
in writing. the current situation in turkey is worrying. the detention of several journalists is a challenge to freedom of expression and the defence of human rights. the eu must alert turkish officials to this situation and help find solutions so that detentions for crimes of opinion cease immediately. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the recent developments in turkey, including the detention of journalists and media officials, the systematic pressure and harassment against them, restrictions on access to twitter and youtube, as well as the growing intolerance towards political opposition and public demonstrations, have challenged an entire political and judicial system, which has been consolidating. i think it is important that these events be explained and clearly framed in the pillars of a state governed by the rule of law such as turkey. this setback only reinforces the need for continued dialogue with turkey, a country with which the union has a strategic partnership.
this motion for a resolution condemns the responses of the turkish government, headed by president erdogan, which, by arresting several journalists and media representatives, is calling into question respect for the rule of law and freedom of the press. the rapporteur warns of the signs of partiality in the judiciary and of intolerance towards political opposition, which are symptoms of a regime affected by an imbalance of powers between the organs of sovereignty, which, despite their institutional interdependence, should necessarily observe a functional separation of powers. in this regard, the government's responses to allegations of corruption reported by some media have raised serious doubts about the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. the exceptional number of journalists in detention and journalists awaiting trial following arrest warrants based on scant and non-transparent information indicates that a set of provisions in the turkish legal framework and their interpretation by magistrates obstruct freedom of expression and the media, undermining respect for the rule of law and freedom of the press, which is a core principle of democracy and at the heart of eu values. in view of the seriousness of the matter, i shall vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i am against all forms of repression of freedom of expression and, in the case underlying this motion for a resolution, we are faced with a gross violation of freedom of the press, clearly an attack on the basic rights of a democratic state governed by the rule of law and on those values which are at the heart of the european union. i would like to stress, as i did in the plenary, that the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary are, together with the freedom of the press mentioned earlier, three of the fundamental pillars on which european democracies are based and, in particular, our rights, freedoms and guarantees as citizens. i also expect turkey, as a candidate country to our union, to carry out judicial investigations in an independent, transparent and scrutinizing manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for these reasons, i support the text of this motion for a resolution, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. when the crisis hits, it is democratic freedoms that suffer first. the situation in turkey is complex. however, systematic attacks on freedom of the press can only be condemned, as can other attacks on all those who seek to fight for social rights and other economic policies and a fairer distribution of wealth. we are also in solidarity with them. what we do not accept is the interference of the eu and the western powers in the internal affairs of countries. the eu lacks the moral and political legitimacy to lecture anyone. we condemn the repression in turkey. but we also believe that it is up to the turkish people to decide their future and to find their own paths of liberation.
in writing. recent events have called into question freedom of thought, expression and the press in turkey (an eu candidate country), values which are essential to the european union and whose violation is incompatible with any enlargement process. i condemn the recent police raids and the arrest of several journalists and media outlets last december and the backsliding of the democratic reforms that had been achieved in turkey and which are being called into question by this new political approach. a democratic society requires pluralism without obliterating basic human rights such as freedom of thought and expression. as paul valéry wrote, it is the nature of violent censorship to make the opinions it attacks credible.
turkish police have been arresting journalists and local media executives, adding to the large number of journalists in detention and awaiting trial, and applying heavy pressure on the media with intimidating statements by politicians and prosecutions of critically speaking journalists. a free and pluralistic press is an essential element of any democracy, as are due process, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary, and i therefore believe that the turkish authorities must exercise the utmost care in their dealings with the media and journalists, as freedom of expression and media freedom remain essential to the functioning of a democratic and open society.
in writing. once again, we express our concern about the detentions and campaigns against journalists, columnists and editors and other critics of the government, including from the opposition, secular, progressive and leftist sectors, and call for their release as well as all political prisoners. these actions by the turkish authorities are inseparable from turkey's position as an arrogant, warmongering and expansionist nato power, as well as from its systematic interference and violations of the sovereignty of neighbouring countries, exemplified by its support, funding, training and equipping of far-right, racist and xenophobic groups, which continue to play an active role in destabilising syria and iraq and committing the most heinous crimes against their peoples and brutal repression. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. the policy is also manifested in the continued occupation of part of the territory of cyprus and in the new navtex agreement with turkey, which we demand should be revoked immediately, and the withdrawal of all turkish vessels from the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus.
mr president, why do we keep talking about foreign fighters and not recognise that the main threat is indeed home-grown, coming from eu nationals such as those who carried out attacks in madrid, in london, in brussels and lately in paris. why do member states, instead of waving pnr as a magic bullet, not adequately finance national information and security services and those at eu level, namely europol, eurojust, frontex, in order to equip them with expertise in arabic and other language skills, as well as in human intelligence to monitor social media, to draw up shared lists of terrorism suspects, spend resources on targeted instead of mass surveillance, on protecting critical infrastructure and on fighting effectively cybercrime and financing of terrorism? why do member states and the eu tolerate the proliferation of competing services and crisis centres, even at eu level as well as at national level, which compete with each other instead of cooperating and sharing information? why do they not invest in a single crisis and information centre at eu level to serve all the eu institutions and communicate with member states? and of course, instead of the austerity that fosters social disintegration, why do they not finance programmes to prevent radicalisation and de-radicalise the young people from our communities who are being drawn into these horrendous activities?
the prevention and firm fight against terrorism can never be a pretext for imposing security measures which limit the freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens, as we have seen with the patriot act. we will also not accept measures of judicial cooperation in criminal matters which call into question constitutionally and democratically established principles of the peoples of each country. we must take serious measures to combat the financing of terrorism, whether it be offshore, the sale of energy resources or the trafficking of arms. we must say: terrorism is always terrorism, in any part of the world. the european union and other forces cannot support and finance organisations which are linked to al-qaeda and the islamic state and then want to fight them when they are close to our homes and terrorism is as much happening in paris as it is being practiced in the occupied palestinian territories or through the drones which the united states uses to fight defenceless populations. it's terrorism all over the place.
in writing. i have no doubt that we must fight terrorism which threatens innocent citizens and seeks to subvert our values and our societies. but in doing so, we must reject simplistic readings and demagogic political speeches. it is not true that terrorism can be uncritically associated with emigration. some of the terrorists, as we have seen in paris now, but also in spain and ireland in the past, are european citizens. it is not true that we need new tools and new laws, undermining the privacy of europeans. what we need to do is to take advantage of the instruments we already have, by optimising judicial and police cooperation (including the sharing of information produced by the secret services), by being effective in the fight against arms trafficking and by implementing without delay the new schengen evaluation system. we need to identify the problems and solve them. calling for more security measures and curtailing freedoms is giving the terrorists a victory. it is reprehensible and we cannot but condemn the forms of politics which exploit fear and the feeling of insecurity.
in writing. other the tragic events in paris, verviers and, more recently, the corinthia hotel have once again brought us face to face with the need to find a response to prevent and combat terrorism, radicalism and the new challenge of homegrown terrorism. these battles and the strengthening of security are not confined to the borders of the member states. these are cross-border problems which require joint solutions based on mutual trust. we cannot, however, divert our objectives by legislating hot based on emotion. we must assess the content and effectiveness of the instruments we already have and promote their full application before we consider changing them. these heinous acts are an attack on human life, but also on the founding principles of the union: respect for life, the defence of freedom, but also solidarity for all those who, for economic and political reasons, seek refuge at our borders. i would like to conclude by reminding you that today we are celebrating european data protection day, world privacy day. it is our duty to ensure that the loss of rights such as privacy is not seen as inevitable. the collection and sharing of information necessary for the prevention and suppression of terrorism must be qualitative and not quantitative!
in writing. the prevention of and the firm fight against terrorism must not be confused with, nor can it be used as a pretext for, new waves of security measures restricting the freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens. we believe that any suggestion at national or european union level of introducing exceptional laws which, like the notorious us patriot act, could lead to the overriding of fundamental rights, must be rejected outright. we consider it essential to adopt mechanisms to combat seriously the financing of terrorism through offshore and less transparent practices involving states and financial institutions, and to adopt mechanisms to combat strictly the trafficking in arms, energy resources and raw materials which may be used to the benefit of terrorist organisations. the fight against terrorism implies the rejection of policies of interference, invasion, occupation and war which, as in the case of iraq, syria and libya, only lead to the emergence of terrorist groups. we also reiterate our conviction that the fight against terrorism cannot be seen as a clash between civilizations or religions, nor can it be used to stigmatize racists and xenophobes.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we will certainly have the opportunity to draw implications from what has happened recently in greece but one thing for sure is that we need a joint programme with greece, run by the european institutions – the commission, the council, parliament – based on fiscal responsibility but certainly restoring real progress and a real prospect for growth and jobs in greece. this is the right answer to be provided. but for that we need investment, and that is why our debate today is relevant and we have a full sense of urgency. that is why i need to say to you, commissioner, on behalf of our group, that we are really worried by the very slow build-up of the european fund for strategic investment. we are, in fact, very worried that member states are not so far making capital pledges for the fund and we know very well that this stronger capital base for the fund is fundamental to enable the fund to increase its lending capacity; so this is a critical point, and this is not going well. we know very well that the eu budget guarantee and the eu contribution is not enough, and we are also worried in particular that minister schäuble recently dismissed germanyʼs intention to make a national contribution, so this is a bad signal. i would say that we need to overcome this obstacle. europe needs a massive investment project adapted to the needs of the real economy and that is why we need to make sure that all member states, including those which are in excessive deficit procedure, can contribute. i hope you can deliver by the next euro area summit.
the proposal for a european fund for strategic investments is bold, innovative, will create jobs, help businesses and encourage entrepreneurship. it is an ambitious investment plan which will have positive side effects in widening and strengthening the internal market. it will remove obstacles to the further development of this market. it will foster interconnectivity and network interconnections, in particular in the energy and digital sectors. it will help to strengthen our competitiveness and, for example, to increase our energy independence. for the success of this fund we need legitimacy and transparency. projects should seek the participation and inclusion of all member states concerned and the european parliament should be fully involved in this plan. the juncker plan, as it is known, must also have an internal solidarity component, a territorial cohesion component.
this european fund for strategic investments responds to an urgent need to combat the economic anaemia in which europe finds itself. the reality of unemployment, the lack of growth prospects and the risks of deflation are there to justify this need. the means, unfortunately, do not correspond at all to the needs. the fund is scarce and very much dependent on the response of private investors. this model has failed in the past and will continue to fail, because it is based on building public-private partnerships where the public deals with the cost and the private deals with the profit. we've seen this in health care, in communications infrastructure, and even in education. failure, because the problem is not just a lack of funding, there is also a lack of investor confidence, fuelled by austerity policies that continue to promote wealth concentration and depress aggregate consumption. europe needs a public investment project with public funding, which contributes to the social and economic cohesion of the european area.
the launch of the european fund for strategic investments is a quantum leap in european crisis management policy. it means acknowledging the failure of the impoverishment model as a path to sustainability of public accounts. the new fund has weaknesses, but it opens up a new conceptual stage. on the one hand, there are explicit strategic options and, on the other hand, the capitalisation of the fund will not be accounted for public deficit purposes. the next step will be to extend this exception to all strategic investment. this is the way to a future of sustainable growth for europe.
in writing. this investment plan will only be positive if it is no longer a programme for granting public guarantees to private investments. the nature of the investments involved - large infrastructure projects - makes it easy to conclude that we are talking about public-private partnerships, where the profit is on the private side and the risk is on the public side. moreover, if investments are not based on the creation of safe, stable and entitled jobs, the jobs that will be created will be ephemeral, poorly paid and will not solve, in the medium and long term, any of the problems that it claims to be solving.
on behalf of the alde group. the science has spoken on climate change. the climate situation has not only been worsening, it has been happening at a faster rate than expected. there's no doubt about what's going on, we have solid data today and a strong consensus in the scientific community around global climate change. it is now the turn of policy-makers to take responsibility. what we've done is not enough. the commitments we have made to our global partners are insufficient. we cannot turn a blind eye to this reality and we must act now, before it is too late for the planet. as mr cañete said here today, many difficult issues remained unresolved at the lima conference. there are many parties involved and many interests at stake and experience shows that they can only be resolved at the highest level by the heads of government and state. the green climate fund's financial requirements and contributions are an example of this. without the consolidation of this instrument, we will hardly be able to achieve the crucial objective of a global, ambitious and legally binding agreement to limit co2 emissions. the time is short until the paris conference, which will take place later this year. i therefore believe that concerted action by the member states and the european commission is essential, and that this should be a joint diplomatic offensive coordinated by the high representative of the european union, federica mogherini, with the main international partners, as mr cañete also mentioned in his opening speech. i also believe that the european union must show commitment and that it must ensure consistency and determination in its own energy and climate policy objectives. i hope that this will be demonstrated in the much awaited communication on the energy union, due at the end of next month. only by being consistent and ambitious among ourselves can we maintain the credibility needed to successfully lead the negotiations on the global climate agreement.
global warming is already having, and will continue to have, catastrophic consequences. the effort to be made cannot be a european effort alone. it has to be a global effort, and that's why we have to mobilize citizens. change is not just made through regulation. to mobilize citizens, beyond global warming, we need to talk about another model of society, with more proximity, with more participation, with more quality. a society with growth, with sustainable jobs, with efficient and clean industries and transport. this paradigm shift is a great economic and social opportunity motivated by an environmental urgency. paris is a city that leads us to beauty, but also to revolution. what we need to achieve in paris is not just a reduction in emissions, it's a revolution in how we live in society in a sustainable way. the traditional industrial model of the second globalization is dead.
climate change is the single most important factor affecting the future of our planet and our civilization. the tipping point we have reached now requires muscular political decisions at a fictional level that imply a substantial reform of our way of life, including a significant reduction in the use of fossil fuels. the ecosystem services on which we depend are threatened and with them, social values and our security. worse, millions of people in islands and less developed nations are suffering the effects of a situation to which they have not contributed. kyoto and johannesburg failed because key countries failed. in lima, some progress has been made, but we have fallen short of the needs. paris is still paris. as the international energy agency warns, the 2 degrees celsius target will be nullified in 2017 in terms of targets if a clear methodology is not agreed by then. i therefore look forward to seeing what has been said so far - that in paris more ambitious targets will be set and implemented.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, copyright is protected for as long as the author lives. the seventy-year period for the protection of the patrimonial dimension of copyright in an intellectual creation after the death of the author is an aberration from a legal and economic point of view. moreover, it is an inadmissible privilege in these times without any acceptable justification. this long period of time does not protect the authors but rather the people who have no legitimate connection to the act of creation. it prolongs, after the death of the author, an illegitimate situation of exclusive monopoly which, while understandable during the life of the creator, becomes unacceptable after his death, since it prevents, or at least restricts, the enjoyment of the work by the general public. this privilege is more appropriate to the privateist conceptions of the time of napoleon's civil code than to a time like the present, in which the democratization of access to culture and the widespread enjoyment of works of art is sought. the present legal system prolongs for too long a situation of exclusive monopoly in favour of the heirs of the intellectual creator, so that only they, or those they appoint, can disseminate the work. at the very least, they can prevent its publication, that is, they can prevent its publication or public knowledge for seventy years after the author's death. let us see if this system applied, for example, to patents on medicines, where the medicine could be protected for seventy years after the death of the author. the commission's proposal is to reduce the time limit from 70 years to 20 or 30 years. the end of protectionism, but the freedom to enjoy intellectual creations and works of art.
it is essential to renew the mandate of the global internet forum (gif) as a platform for monitoring, debate and self-regulation of internet use. it is wrong to think that non-regulation guarantees the neutrality of the internet. however, the guarantee of net neutrality cannot call into question the space of freedom, creativity and value creation that the internet has become. therefore, a shared and open 'governance' is one that serves a healthy dynamic of internet development, justifying the renewal and strengthening of the igf.
mr president, in theory we think it would be a good thing if the information on the origin of the meat used in processed food could be visible on the label. we could even extend this standard to all the ingredients in these products. we have, however, doubts about the operability of this standard. this issue, as is invariably the case in the european union, is the result of a scandal which has had an impact on the media and which has led the institutions to legislate without a mature reflection on the problems. it is one thing to adulterate a product with the illegal addition of horse meat, but it is quite another to impose the geographical origin labelling on portions of meat incorporated into the processed food without looking at the costs this entails for the rank and file and without taking care to know whether there are control mechanisms in place to enable the authorities to ensure that these standards are actually being met. in the absence of a closed position on this subject, these are questions that should be discussed without rushing into a rule that will always have a strong impact, especially at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector.
madam president, i was saying that the right to strike is a fundamental right. with the strike, the workers become aware of their strength, they understand clearly where the wealth comes from and who appropriates it. that's why the strike is systematically attacked by the employers' associations, who fear it and have good reason to do so. the fundamental right of every citizen to be free from harassment, to preserve his health and well-being, is a phrase that is repeatedly introduced. they talk about the total cost of the strike to society. for them, workers are not citizens, they are not part of society. this is intended to limit the exercise of the strike through a set of measures designed in practice to prevent workers from striking, to limit its impact until they become inoperative. of course, if it were up to a few, we would still be in the time of slavery. but for us the future lies in the social and political emancipation of the workers. any retreat in this matter will always be met with our strongest opposition.
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr cofferati, i would like to ask you what measures the european union, the european commission, should or could take to punish or prevent certain member states from limiting, restricting or sometimes even eliminating the right to strike in these countries?
madam president, in this debate the right to protest has sometimes been confused with the right to strike, and i would appeal to the commissioner to take account of this important difference. the right to demonstrate is a spontaneous right that often arises today with a mechanism such as social networks and that allows for quick contacts, but the right to strike has behind it an essential issue which is that of negotiation. and so, when we speak of a fundamental right, we are talking about commitments which are made between workers and their employers, who seek, through negotiation, in the first stage, to reach a consensus. and it is only when this is not possible that the workers strike at their own expense. and it is this first issue, self-harm, that is often overlooked here too. when we talk about the social and economic damage that comes from a strike, we can never forget that workers use the right to strike to show that they are key pieces in our society. commissioner, our motto is united in diversity. that is also the motto of the trade union associations.
madam president, commissioner, companies today in the european union and in free societies have an inescapable social responsibility. corporate social responsibility must be a requirement of modern states and modern societies. freedom to strike is a fundamental freedom for workers. the right to strike makes companies stronger, more powerful, more competitive in the global market. so instead of restricting the right to strike in the european union, in the member states, we should try to boost the right to strike in emerging powers, such as china and other countries where this right is not respected. the european commission, the european union, must therefore defend the right to strike and punish and sanction those member states which restrict or limit this right.
madam president, i salute the commissioner for making the fight against youth unemployment her top priority, and we also welcome warmly her proposal fostering implementation of the funds available in this youth initiative. of course we also urge the council to adopt promptly these proposals coming from the commission. however, we are only dealing with a kind of prepayment of eur 1 billion, which was already available. if, commissioner, you want to avoid a lost generation – if you want to open up a new future for young people in europe – then we need to have a much larger wave of job creation: jobs of the future and quality jobs. that is why i believe that the critical factor – the deciding factor – will be the european investment plan. this plan should be used to create these jobs of the future for young people. that is why, commissioner, i have a question for you, which is the following: how do you intend to use the european investment plan to pave the way for the jobs of the future, and particularly in those regions most hit?
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your intervention and let me say that i very much agree with your concerns and with the measures you have put forward here. it is unacceptable that more than 5 million young europeans are unemployed. it is incomprehensible that we cannot create conditions, more and better conditions, to provide more than 7 million young people who cannot study and who are not included in vocational training programmes. europe must act quickly and urgently to solve this scourge of youth unemployment in the short term. we need social programmes, that is true, but what young people expect, want and aspire to are job opportunities. young people need to put their academic value to work and need to gain skills quickly to be able to enter an increasingly competitive professional world. in portugal, and despite the enormous challenges posed by the crisis, it is important and going against what my colleague lara comi said... in my country, portugal, the youth guarantee has been implemented in the best possible way. in portugal, more than 180 000 young people have already found a job and have made a huge effort to complete their studies. but it's not enough, we have to do more. so, commissioner, there is a generation, my generation, a more ambitious generation of young people who do not want to stay here: they want more and do not want to be limited. so i congratulate you, commissioner, on putting forward over a billion euros to support youth employment, but i also challenge you to create an entrepreneurial ecosystem at eu level that will allow the creation of hundreds of start-ups and thousands of jobs for our young people. it is time, commissioner, for the european union to become a true start-up nation, so that all entrepreneurial actors are in constant contact and where new sources of finance are available. i'll be right out. it is necessary, madam commissioner, and i believe we must not forget that the future of every country and the future of europe belongs to each of us, to the young.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate you on this measure, i congratulate the european union on this measure, although it is essentially a palliative measure. the real solution to the problems of unemployment lies in economic policies of growth, not austerity. i would like to draw your attention to a problem within this general problem of youth unemployment: it is the unemployment of young women. young women are often forced to give up motherhood in order to have a job. young women often have to choose between being mothers and having a job. and so the policies that combat youth unemployment must also combat this inequity, so that young women can have a job and can also be mothers. finally, a word for effective scrutiny of how this money is spent, because recent history has shown us that it is often lost in corruption, in buying political allegiances or in easy electoralism.
mr president, mrs thyssen, ladies and gentlemen, youth unemployment is a worrying and frightening reality, both in terms of the figures it presents and the consequences it entails. the commissioner mentioned in her opening statement that one in five young europeans is unemployed. there are about five million in europe. that is why i welcome the commission's proposal to increase the prefinancing rate for the youth employment initiative in regions where youth unemployment exceeds 25%, such as portugal, where the youth unemployment rate is 34.5% and represents some 280 000 young people. on 4 february, the commission announced that around €1 billion could be made available this year to help young people who are not in employment, education or training, the so-called neets, aged 15 to 29. i congratulate you on this initiative, madam commissioner, and i hope that the commission will also define the minimum standards to be met by the operational programmes to be adopted by the member states with regard to the quality of traineeships, the dignity of wages and the stability of employment links. commissioner, as you said, we cannot waste any more time. yes, it is urgent to rescue an entire generation at risk.
in writing. youth unemployment does not affect all member states in the same way. in germany the youth unemployment rate was in november 2014 only 7%, but in spain it was 54%, in greece 50% and in portugal 32%. without jobs, young people cannot emancipated themselves and pursue their life projects, and economic development is compromised. the effects are also felt on birth rates, which affects the future sustainability of the welfare state. this initiative is perhaps a little late. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i come from the azores, a region where the regional government is a pioneer in the adoption of measures to promote youth employment. however, it has not been easy to combat the harmful effects on firms and households of the austerity policies imposed by the troika, which have a particularly severe impact on the macroeconomic environment.
in writing. youth unemployment, which is around 50% in some countries, is unacceptable. in portugal, some 280 000 young people are not working, studying or in training. in the european union, the average youth unemployment rate is around 23%. two years ago the commission launched the youth guarantee. however, two years after the adoption of the youth employment initiative, the results are clearly unsatisfactory. the commissioner for employment has now announced an extra €1 billion in pre-financing for youth employment operations, to directly support 700 000 young people. of course, this reinforcement is welcome, although it is late and clearly insufficient. but more than this reinforcement, what we would like to see is first of all an evaluation of the implementation of the programme so far, to see what went wrong. secondly, we would like to see effective policies to stimulate the economy, from which young people would benefit much more than from this programme.
in writing. increasing the pre-financing rate of the european youth initiative is positive. but we cannot confuse the advance of funds with the increase of funds. this programme, according to the ilo itself, should have been four times larger and this condition of underfinancing has not changed. the question is: what kind of jobs are being created? it's your quarterly employment and social situation analysis that says that many of the new jobs created are part-time and/or temporary. let us take the example of portugal. excluding education, training or traineeships, which are obviously not jobs, this guarantee funds fixed-term contracts and also pays for travel for young people to travel to job interviews outside the country. what we need to know is how many permanent and stable employment contracts are being created.
mr president, is this initiative really beneficial to the workers or is it just, in the times we live in today, a way of trying to hold the workers responsible for the management problems and financial problems created by those who have always profited from these companies but who now need to be saved? there are several experiences that we know of which say that workers who became shareholders in companies eventually lost rights, such as the right to pension, since the pension of these workers was affected by the insolvency of the companies, but they also lost their salary and even their job. that is, they did not even receive the promised profits, and they also ended up unemployed. so the risks are enormous. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. we have no doubt that workers are well equipped to run companies, because they have proven time and again in history that they can do so. it's not just the managers. in fact, managers often manage them in a more disastrous way. now what this is about is making sure that it's not the workers who are left with the risks and probably with situations that are no longer viable, because it was the managers themselves who put these companies in an unviable situation. it is not the workers who will have to pay for it, and so they will often be presented with a situation that is seemingly good but is actually not viable and that will end up disadvantaging the workers instead of benefiting them.
madam president, this debate stems from confusion about the legal basis of the directive, a directive which was consensual and necessary. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the data protection rules. while it is true that this directive will end a certain feeling of impunity, it is equally true that it will not work miracles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety of the community is not compromised. in this respect, we are very concerned about the public-private partnership model which dominates road construction in europe, and particularly in portugal. the result is toll roads, through expensive tolls that push much of the population onto secondary roads, of poor quality, and at great cost to the safety of the localities. this is just one example. palliative care is necessary, but it does not eliminate the need for background treatment.
mrs mogherini, i agree with you when you say that we do need a peaceful solution. but political solutions to peace are not built by demonizing one side of the conflict. on january 15, the unsuspecting human rights watch organization repeated its accusation that kiev forces are indiscriminately targeting civilian areas and accused the ukrainian prime minister of using cluster bombs and multiple rocket launchers. why did the united states send military trainers to ukraine and why is ukraine using nato munitions in the attacks on gorlovka if its intention is to keep the peace? a political solution requires a different view of the conflict and not the imposition of one party on the other. we must call for the withdrawal of the aggressor forces from donbass, we must recognize the status of belligerent forces for the parties to the conflict - which implies, in fact, the recognition of the right of resistance to fascist and ultranationalist forces - and we must promote direct dialogue between the parties to the conflict.
the european union must stop the war of aggression that russia has started with the illegal occupation of crimea and is continuing in the donbass, in violation of the 1994 budapest protocol which demarcated the russian-ukrainian borders in return for the dismantling of ukraine's nuclear arsenal. and it also calls into question global security, in actions already tragically illustrated by the downing of the malaysian airlines plane last summer. in addition to the dead and wounded already counted in ukraine, more tragedies may occur as a result of russian military flights and submarines crossing european space without identification. the unconfirmed war russia has unleashed is not only against ukrainian independence: it is against international law and global peace. yes, whether we like it or not, and we do not want war, also against europe. the union cannot be sidestepped. if the negotiating efforts of chancellor merkel and president hollande fail to bring about moscow's compliance with the minsk agreements, the european union will have to take the decision to support by all means, in an intelligent and strategic way, the efforts to defend the ukrainian people.
the european union is not a party to the nuclear agreement, but it is a party to the nuclear agreement. despite this, the number of states with nuclear arsenals outside the international monitoring regime has almost doubled. it is time to demand and commit ourselves to the npt leading to the total elimination of nuclear weapons in the world. the time is ripe, and not just because of the review conference this year. once again we are witnessing a geostrategic conflict in europe, with war in ukraine, dangerously provoked by a nuclear power, russia, in violation of a nuclear regulatory treaty, the 1994 budapest protocol. but the resurgence of war and armed conflict and terrorism on european soil and in the immediate neighbourhood, the middle east and north africa, by state and non-state actors, cannot justify an arms race. on the contrary, the world must demonstrate that it has learned from past mistakes. nuclear weapons are not deterrents, quite the contrary, proliferation leads to more proliferation. we must get israel, india and pakistan to join the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and north korea to re-enter the disarmament regime and be monitored by the international atomic energy agency. so far we have failed to make the npt effective. the oldest nuclear states fail: the united states, france, the united kingdom, russia and china, which have all maintained nuclear arsenals. they will have no moral authority to preach disarmament to other countries and fail those who in recent decades have joined the club of nuclear states by refusing to join the npt. they do not disclose the number of nuclear warheads, they refuse international control and thus feed mutual suspicion and mistrust. cases from india, pakistan, israel and iran. the ctbt must enter into force definitively, as the high representative has stressed, if the npt is to be strengthened. madam high representative, in addition to the common position for the next npt review conference, we need the accession of those who have not yet done so to the npt to be part of the regular dialogues of the european union with the countries concerned. it is vital that the union uses its diplomatic capacities as an actor in global security, development, trade, energy power, etc. to make the npt a truly binding global regime that eliminates nuclear arsenals, and this also implies doing the homework with the nuclear powers of the european union, france and the united kingdom.
mr president, international nuclear disarmament is of vital importance. the non-proliferation treaty and its ratification by all states must be defended and strengthened. in the current international context, the dangers are obvious. in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the treaty, disarmament and an end to the development, production and stockpiling of new nuclear weapons are necessary. the united states and nato, while maintaining an overwhelming supremacy in conventional forces, do not dispense with their vast nuclear potential, insisting on the maintenance of nuclear weapons in europe and asia and making it impossible to create a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east. the rhetoric underlying the nuclear doctrine of the united states, revised by obama, is based on the duplicity of criteria and the instrumentalization of the non-proliferation treaty and represents a factor of perversion of its content and a factor of threat to world peace. israel, which unlike iran has nuclear weapons and has not signed the treaty, enjoys total impunity. the european union is complicit in this, as we can see here again. and let me just add: it is regrettable, as has already been said, that the major political groups, such as the epp and the socialists, have made it impossible for a resolution on the non-proliferation treaty to be discussed and adopted in this parliament.
mr president, we value the experience of the joint parliamentary assembly, which brings together parliamentarians from europe and the acp countries, africa, the caribbean and the pacific. it is regrettable that it is being devalued by the council, by several member states and, to some extent, even by the european parliament. this assembly has proved to be a very rich forum for cooperation, mutual knowledge and exchange of experience. a space where the contradictions that result from the uneven development of capitalism, the deep asymmetries that run through the world today, are very evident. the contradictions between the european union's development-friendly discourse and the concrete sectoral policies that systematically undermine and subvert the declarations of good intentions are evident. the contradictions of those who point the finger in a paternalistic tone, and often with unconfessed ambitions of neo-colonial cutbacks, without looking at the disgrace they are inflicting on their own home, without looking at the disastrous domestic results of the policies and options they want to impose on others. it is against this backdrop that we will have the important debate on the future of development policy after 2015.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important conclusions of this report is that it recognises the need for a better definition of the strategic priorities for european union cooperation with the acp countries. indeed, we need clear priorities at a time of so many challenges: from poverty to climate change, from ebola to refugees, from human rights to terrorism. but in this year of crucial conferences, an inclusive debate on the future of development policies must be a top priority. the european union's leadership in this area must be inclusive. and what i ask the commissioner is that, having been in the joint parliamentary assembly, we would like to know whether he has taken account of the acp countries' concerns in the proposals the commission has put forward for the future of development finance, and how he assesses the participation of the acp countries in the discussion on the future of development at global level.
mr president, two brief thoughts. the first is to stress the importance of the parliamentary dimension in acp-eu cooperation. the results achieved by parliamentary diplomacy, as well as the concept itself, must be demonstrated and must also be valued. the truth is that many of the results achieved in the work of our parliamentary assembly are not immediately or tangibly measurable or perceived by each and every one of our partner countries. they take some time to bear fruit, of course. the parliamentary dimension of our cooperation should therefore not, in our view, be diluted in future relations beyond 2020. and, as far as possible, it should be strengthened. first of all, for its participation in the debate currently under way on the future of acp-eu relations. another idea is to involve the growing number of actors in public administration at more decentralised levels - whether municipalities, regional governments or associations of municipalities - in an increasingly close link to our parliamentary assembly. contacts with the authorities are therefore important, but also with the living forces of civil society that can in some way contribute positively and proactively to the objectives set out in our cooperation. in conclusion, let me just emphasize the undeniable role of the local authorities, in particular the municipalities, which i believe should be increasingly involved, in an informal but regular way, in our work in our parliamentary assembly, whether through specific meetings or through conferences, seminars or other means, in order to enhance and further spread the message of this privileged cooperation.
madam president, the point here is that it does not matter whether the justification for female genital mutilation is based on culture, tradition, custom or religion. it's a crime. an estimated 500,000 women were mutilated. that means that in europe, 500,000 crimes were committed. we have about 200,000 at risk. what good are treaties and laws that do not guarantee the safety of women who are at risk of being cut and amputated in europe? there are still medieval customs and traditions in europe. female genital mutilation is one of them. we still have a barbaric europe, a europe that is apathetic to figures that it cannot confirm. the commissioner said she couldn't confirm the data. but if it's 500 or 500,000 women who are mutilated, does that make the problem any less? a year from now, we'll all be standing here indignant at these numbers, unconfirmed numbers, but rusty blades will still cut women. and i'll be right with you, madam president. if the european union does not take concrete action... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, female genital mutilation is undoubtedly one of the most heinous forms of violence against women. it is a serious violation of their rights and of the rights of children as well, causing irreparable damage to their physical, sexual and psychological health, and even causing, often, death. this is the most brutal form of alienation of women in patriarchal systems, and it is a brutal alienation that happens also invisibly. but apart from the improvement of penal systems and their applicability, which is the subject of much discussion here, the fight against this obscurantism cannot be separated from the wider struggle for the protection and strengthening of women's sexual and reproductive rights, access to sexual education, and improvement of maternal and child health - matters in which there are today unacceptable regressions due to the european union's highly protected macroeconomic coordination, with all that this implies. we are talking about situations that occur in our countries and therefore these women should also have these rights.
madam president, i congratulate the european commission on the action plan and the measures announced today. it is almost unbelievable that in the 21st century, we still need to talk about this subject. collectively, we have to ask ourselves how we got here, how is it possible for such an aberrant practice to take place in our world and in europe in particular. even in my own country, recent reports point to dozens of cases of female genital mutilation. these are old cases, but they exist. one case would be too many, but we're talking about tens of thousands across europe. in addition to all the instruments available to the international european institutions and national institutions, i think that the focus must also be on education. we need to contribute to the educational efforts that are being made around the world and especially to direct educational campaigns to the communities where there is the greatest risk of the practice happening. i see from what has been announced today that the commission intends to play a particularly active role in ensuring that the convention on the prevention and combating of violence against women, as recognised by the istanbul convention, is applied, irrespective of the territory in which the crime occurs.
in writing. female genital mutilation is today one of the most barbaric violations of human rights and gender equality. an estimated 140 million women and girls have been the victims of female genital mutilation, mostly in africa and the middle east. but this is not just a problem of societies outside our western world. quite the opposite! this act of barbarism, which inflicts appalling harm on women and young girls, has already claimed 500,000 victims in the eu alone, with victims, or potential victims, in at least 13 eu countries! it is urgent to tackle it swiftly and effectively, and the commission and the member states must make every effort to eradicate it, both ex ante, through information and preventive measures to support possible victims and through deterrent criminal frameworks, and at a later stage, in the identification of cases, the punishment of offenders and the follow-up of victims. it is not enough to know how the commission intends to link the protection of asylum seekers on grounds of genital mutilation with the asylum procedures directive.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that 93 countries have now acceded to the hague convention. i regret that only 93 countries have signed up to this convention. i am particularly pleased that all the member states of the union have acceded to this convention and have made the best interests of the child their central objective. the best interests of the child are a fundamental value of the legal order of the rule of law, of the democratic legal order. the child must be put back in the centre of concerns and not used as a weapon of discord between unfortunate couples. no unlawful act can create rights, or even legitimate legal expectations. so i say, in conclusion, that speed in acting in this process is essential... (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. yes, of course, although i also recognize that often it is not so much the punishment that solves the problem, but rather prevention. but that no situation, no unlawful act, can generate rights or even legitimate expectations. the first sanction is to remove the effects of their unlawful conduct.
madam president, the european union is confronted with daunting challenges in terms of security – internal and external security. i believe we cannot afford to be divided internally and we need to strengthen our social cohesion. every citizen should have a real chance of hope for the future and be rewarded for his or her efforts. the greek people were brought to the point of despair, and we need to provide a better solution for the greek people. this solution should be based on a credible compromise. we need a rebalancing of the budget in greece, but at a more reasonable pace. we need reforms, but the relevant ones are tax collection, public administration and a welfare system with real universal and sustainable coverage, and most of all we need a big push for good investment projects and job creation. what really matters is the method. we should close these troika methods. we should have a real democratic deal, involving the european institutions with the greek population, and we also need to make sure that, overall, the economic and monetary union is completed in such a way that it becomes a space not of divergence but of convergence: economic convergence, social convergence and also political convergence. i believe this is a major task for the four presidents in the upcoming discussion. we need a different kind of monetary zone, where all member states have a real possibility of making progress if they put in the right effort. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
ask him about the blue card procedure. madam president, madam member, you and your party and your group talk a lot about growth and investment, but the truth is that you continue to deny the urgent need to renegotiate the debts. i would like you to explain to us here: how is it that, for example, in your country, portugal, which will pay, in interest only on its debt, by 2020, three times, i emphasize, three times what it will receive from the european union in structural and investment funds, in the absence of a renegotiation, where does it intend to seek the resources for the investment it talks about so much?
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for your question. in fact, i do not think that the solution applied in portugal is a good solution, because we have come to the end of the rescue programme with much higher unemployment, with reduced potential growth and with a debt that has gone from 90% of gdp to almost 130%. portugal, therefore, like greece, is not an example of a successful economic policy. to reduce the debt burden, the first thing to do is to get portugal growing again. it's getting inflation to be higher. it's just reviewing the interest and the maturities. and from there, i think we can start to decrease the portuguese debt.
i would like to say that this is a council which has two very important issues: the issue of terrorism and, in particular, the issue of ukraine, which is a hot topic. but i wanted to focus on the greek issue. and i would like to say that it is not just the economic issue that concerns us here. what i ask the gue, and even the left-wing meps, is what they would say if by chance some of the epp or even the s&d parties were allied with a party like the greek independents. what would they be saying in this house? when they did what they did to austria with mr haider, when they often bring up mr berlusconi here, what would they be saying to hungary? now they've whitewashed everything about the far right, and this coalition of the far right and the far left is a good indication of what we're up against. but there is something else that worries me very much: what will become of the union's foreign policy, with this government and these visions. we are dealing with this very serious problem of ukraine, and the first gesture that the greek government has is to give support to russia and its way of looking at the ukrainian problem. this is extremely worrying. it's not just the willingness to not pay, the willingness to break commitments that we're worried about. it is a typical attitude of the far left, which will call into question the values of the european union, its values of the rule of law and its values of fundamental rights. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. i do not want you to vote again and i have great respect for the election result and the choice of the greek people. what i wanted to say to you was this: how is the extreme left united with the extreme right? that's what he didn't explain. why is greece supporting russia in the ukrainian conflict? that's what he didn't explain. those are the answers i'd like you to give us. on that day, i could have been more comfortable with this greek government, with this kind of statement. and as for austerity, let me tell you something: the portuguese people have also suffered a lot of austerity, and we are today, contrary to what some here have said, clearly better off than we were in 2011. we are on a path to sustainability and to emerging from an extremely serious crisis, we are growing, with unemployment falling. so here's a good example that i think we can follow, if we implement the right policies at the right time. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. i don't know why i'm an extremist. i'd like to know. the only thing i'm saying is that the independent greeks are clearly a far-right group. but i'll tell you this: they worry me as much as syriza, which is a far-left group. in my view, the two are in the same group as regards the values which are typical of the european union. in fact, that is why they have joined forces and why mrs le pen supports the syriza government. and, moreover, let me also say, for the moment, on the question of russia, which every day, as the leaders of the greek government have done, sends out misleading signals in europe. one day he says one thing, the next day he says another. you only say what suits you. it says one thing to the greek public and another to the european public. and it is this ambiguity that i want to denounce here.
mr president, terrorism is being financed through tax havens while the eu governments and institutions look the other way. injustice, outrage and terror are what eu taxpaying citizens feel in the face of the lux leaks and swiss leaks revelations. will the council and the commission finally act against this terror? no other strategy against terrorism will work if we do not ditch the blind austerity that has been strangling growth in europe and fuelling unemployment, social exclusion and the nihilist ideology driving young europeans to fight with daesh – and training closer than ever now in libya. terror and destruction is what the greeks, and the eu, will face if a negotiated solution is not found urgently to enable the greeks to breathe and to work to pay debts. last but not least, terror is what the ukrainians are facing. we do not simply want old europe and old russia negotiating over ukraine. out of minsk we want peace for all of europe.
in writing. this debate confirms the perennial nature of the holy alliance between the right and social democracy. the nuances in the speech do not hide the convergence of positions. it is true for new democracy and pasok in greece, it is true for psd-cds and the ps in portugal. we ask those who talk about investment and growth but refuse to accept the need to renegotiate debt: how do you want to do that? they don't really want to. they don't think to do it. consider the case of portugal. by 2020, the country will pay in debt interest alone three times what it will receive from the european union's structural and investment funds. what investment is possible under these conditions? it's not a good idea. the foolishness of the rich at the expense of the poor continues. the acclaimed draghi quantitative easing program, which nationalizes the risks of sovereign debt purchase transactions but shares the profits, has countries like portugal financing germany through the interest charged on their debt. it is not new that the people on the periphery pay for the gains of the centre. the debt renegotiation is necessary and inevitable, but it is not sufficient in itself. we must break with the policies, instruments and mechanisms of capitalist integration, which are inherently unjust and generate asymmetries and inequalities.
in writing. following the eurogroup meeting, in which the 18 euro-zone countries failed to agree on a solution to the economic and financial crisis in greece, a meeting of eu heads of state or government is due to take place in the coming days to discuss the issue again. i hope that the european leaders will reach a financing agreement and that greece will be an integral part of the euro area, remaining in the single currency and the european monetary system. in the wake of the paris attacks, i challenge member states to commit to working together and cooperating more actively to combat terrorism. i also believe that the efforts made in recent days by various leaders to secure peace in ukraine are of crucial strategic importance. however, i believe that if necessary, new measures should already be in place or at least optimized to ensure peace as one of the pillars of the european union's sustainability.
the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. all acts should be codified no later than after 10 amendments in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. for this reason, this is a highly technical amendment. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the consolidated acts in full and introducing only the formal amendments required by the consolidation process itself.
this report deals with a technical matter only, which is the codification of council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. the proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the codified acts in full, merely bringing them together with the formal amendments required by the codification process itself. i congratulate the european commission on the simplification it has adopted to clarify union law and make it more accessible and easily understandable to the ordinary citizen, which will allow access to new opportunities and the possibility of benefiting from the specific rights that are granted to citizens.
in writing. at its meeting on 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment of the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the main purpose of this is to bring together, with minor formal changes required by the codification procedure itself, the system of safeguard measures contained in this agreement, which is subject to the rules of codecision. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the consolidated acts in their entirety. for all of the above, you deserve my vote in favour.
this report concerns the codification of the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen, which will allow him new opportunities and the possibility of benefiting from the specific rights attributed to him. this objective implies administrative simplification. the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments should therefore be codified. the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed by interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 that an accelerated procedure could be used for the rapid adoption of consolidated acts. it should be stressed that the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the aim of codification is to make eu law more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand, ensuring clarity and transparency of the law by codifying rules that have been subject to frequent amendments. since the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal amendments required by the codification process itself, we did not oppose this report.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures adopted by the wto dispute settlement body. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself. anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures are interference with the internal decisions of each country. the losers are the developing and less developed countries. each state must have the right to decide on its model of economic and social development. this right cannot be denied, it is a sovereign right, which calls into question the model of export promotion and free trade. the whole logic of this is competition for market shares in the name of competition. not a logic of cooperation, where trade has a role to play in development. the new regulation voted on today will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself. although we are against the content of the regulation, we think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making it easier to understand the legislation. that is why we abstained.
in writing. this report deals with a technical issue only, which is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures adopted by the wto dispute settlement body. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. under the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto), a memorandum of understanding on rules and procedures governing the settlement of disputes (merl) was concluded, under which the dispute settlement body (dsb) was established. i agree with this regulation, because it safeguards the common standards against dumped imports from countries outside the european union, thus protecting the social status of thousands of people in disadvantaged countries. it should be underlined that the application of this regulation requires uniform conditions for the adoption of measures following a report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures approved by the crl contained in regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organisation (wto), of which the eu is a member, issues reports on, among other things, anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 concerns the measures that the eu may take following a report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures adopted by the dsb. that regulation has been substantially amended and should therefore be codified for reasons of clarity and rationality. at its meeting on 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying regulation (eec) no 1515/2001. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment of the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
the european union attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying european law in order to make it more accessible and easily understood and understood by the ordinary citizen. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this proposal is a codification of council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures adopted by the wto dispute settlement body and does not provide for a change in the substance of the acts to which it relates, as can be read in the text of the opinion. although this is a purely technical matter, aimed at integrating the various acts incorporated in a new regulation, it falls within the field of codecision and therefore requires the examination and vote of the ep. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal once it has been submitted for approval.
in writing. regulation 452/2003 has been amended several times. we voted against this regulation during the debate and the vote because it advocates the liberalization of international trade in a very unruly way. the whole logic of this is competition for market shares in the name of competition, not a logic of cooperation, where trade has a role to play in development. on the other hand, anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures represent potential interference in each country's internal decisions and threats that may be imposed by the wto. the losers are the developing and less developed countries. the new regulation preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, introducing only the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself. we are totally against the content of this regulation. however, in the name of legislative simplification, we abstained.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures adopted by the wto dispute settlement body. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself. we consider that anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures are interferences in the internal decisions of each country, which lead to developing and least developed countries being the most harmed. each state must have the right to decide on its model of economic and social development. although we are against the content of the regulation, we think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand, and we abstained.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. regulation no 452/2003 on the measures that the eu may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures has been amended several times. we voted against this regulation during the debate and the vote because it defends the liberalisation of trade and the principle of reciprocity and the imposition of retaliatory measures. the whole logic of this is one of competition for market shares in the name of competition and not a logic of cooperation, where trade has a role to play in development. on the other hand, anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures are interferences in the internal decisions of each country and threats that can be imposed by the wto. the losers are the developing and less developed countries. the new regulation voted on today will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself. this is a technical amendment, and our abstention was justified by the fact that we did not agree with the basic text.
in writing. this report deals with a purely technical issue, which is to codify council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that the objectives of the safeguard measures and the anti-dumping and/or anti-subsidy measures can be achieved without impeding exporting producers from having access to the union market. however, i believe that it is appropriate to provide for specific provisions enabling the commission to adopt measures to ensure a combination of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard tariff measures applicable to the same product. this is a guarantee that the economic and social conditions of workers are improved. i further understand that the commission may consider it appropriate to amend, suspend or repeal anti-dumping and/or anti-subsidy measures or to provide for partial or total exemption from any anti-dumping or anti-subsidy duties that would be adopted. any suspension, amendment or exemption of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures may be granted only for a limited period of time, as the objective should be to prevent such a situation from occurring.
in writing. at its meeting on 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping and safeguard measures. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment of the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
the european union attaches the utmost importance to simplifying and clarifying european law, making it more understandable to the ordinary citizen. in this regard, in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the purpose of this proposal, which deserves my vote in favour, is to codify council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures, while preserving the content of the codified acts in their entirety. like the a8-0033 report, this is a purely technical matter, which aims to integrate the various acts integrated into a new regulation, but which, as it falls within the field of codecision, requires the examination and vote of the ep. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal once it has been submitted for approval.
the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself. we are against the liberalization of international trade based on a so-called law of the market which favours only the strongest. each state must have the right to decide its own model of economic and social development. this right cannot be denied, it is a sovereign right, which cannot be called into question by any free trade agreement. although we are against the content of the regulation, we think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making it easier to understand the legislation. that is why we abstained.
in writing. during the debate and vote on this regulation, we voted against it, because it defends trade liberalisation and the principle of reciprocity and the imposition of retaliatory measures, defending the logic of competition for market shares in the name of competition rather than a logic of cooperation for the development of countries. on the other hand, anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures are interferences in the internal decisions of each country and threats that can be imposed by the wto. the losers are the developing and less developed countries. the new regulation voted on today will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself. although we are against the content of this regulation, we think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand, and we abstained.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to merging them and to making only the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. the proposal under discussion is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. the new regulation will therefore replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the consolidated acts in their entirety and introducing only the formal amendments required by the consolidation process itself. the regulation codified by the regulation lays down the principle of freedom of importation of products originating in third countries, subject to any safeguard measures. this regulation applies to imports into the eu of products originating in non-eu countries, with the exception of textile products subject to a specific import regime and products originating in non-eu countries subject to the common specific import regime of the countries themselves. this legislation is in line with the conferral of exclusive powers on the eu in the field of trade policy, depriving states of this important instrument of sovereignty. trade policy is now being defined not in the interests and needs of the weaker economies but, on the contrary, of the major eu powers. this is a purely technical amendment and it is justified. however, our disagreement with the basic act justified our abstention.
this report deals with a technical issue only, which is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on the common rules for imports. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to merging them and to making only the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
the european community has concluded the agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto), and the european union's trade policy should be based on uniform principles. i am voting in favour of this regulation which safeguards the constant and relevant exchange of information between the wto exporting countries to the european union and the european authorities on dangers arising from the evolution of imports which may require the establishment of a union surveillance or the application of safeguard measures. i also stress the importance of safeguard measures being envisaged only in relation to wto member countries if the product in question is imported into the union in such large quantities, in such large form and under such terms or conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to union producers of like or directly competing products. i would also like to safeguard that textile products covered by council regulation (ec) no 517/94 are subject to specific treatment at union and international level and should therefore be excluded from the scope of this regulation.
in writing. at its meeting on 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment of the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. as in the case of other reports voted on at this part-session, this is a simple codification of existing texts which does not involve any substantive changes to them. this is a frequently used mechanism, which arises from an interinstitutional agreement concluded on 20 december 1994 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on an accelerated working method for the rapid adoption of consolidated acts. in this particular case, we are faced with the need to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports. i therefore voted in favour of this report, since it seeks to ensure greater legal certainty and security in european legislation.
in writing. regulation 260/2009, which has been codified, lays down the principle of freedom of importation of products originating in third countries, subject to any safeguard measures. this regulation applies to imports into the eu of products originating in non-eu countries, with the exception of textile products subject to a specific import regime and products originating in non-eu countries subject to the common specific import regime of the countries themselves. the purpose of this report is to codify the regulation on the common import arrangements. the new regulation will replace the various integrated acts, whilst preserving the content of the consolidated acts in full.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify the regulation on the common import arrangements. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts, at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier for citizens to understand. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the consolidated acts in their entirety. regulation no 260/2009, which has been codified, lays down the principle of freedom of import of products originating in third countries, subject to any safeguard measures. this regulation applies to imports into the eu of products originating in non-eu countries, with the exception of textile products subject to a specific import regime and products originating in non-eu countries subject to the common specific import regime of the countries themselves. in order to be eligible for the safeguard measures, a product must be imported into the eu in such large quantities and/or under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to eu producers. we didn't object.
the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common export regime. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to merging them and to making only the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. the proposal under discussion is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. the new regulation will therefore replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the consolidated acts in their entirety and introducing only the formal amendments required by the consolidation process itself. regulation no 1061/2009 establishes the principle of freedom of export, whereby eu exports to non-eu countries are free from quantitative restrictions. this legislation is in line with the conferral of exclusive powers on the eu in the field of trade policy, depriving states of this important instrument of sovereignty. trade policy is now being defined not in the interests and needs of the weaker economies but, on the contrary, of the major eu powers. this is a purely technical amendment and it is justified. however, our disagreement with the basic act justified our abstention.
this report deals with a technical issue only, which is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common export regime. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. as with imports, the european union must have a common policy to support and encourage international trade in exports. it is possible to establish at union level the principle that exports to third countries are not subject to quantitative restrictions and that only measures which may be taken by member states in accordance with the treaty should be taken into account. i am in favour of this regulation, which aims to examine at european level the conditions under which member states' exports take place, their development, the various elements of the economic and commercial situation and, if necessary, the measures to be taken.
in writing. at its meeting on 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common export regime. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment of the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. in order to ensure clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this is the case with the present proposal, which concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common export regime. like other reports voted on in this plenary session, this is a proposal which is simply a codification of existing texts and does not involve any significant changes, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. under regulation (ec) no 1061/2009, eu countries may adopt safeguard measures if they consider it necessary as a result of exceptional market developments. to protect the interests of the eu, appropriate measures, such as quantitative restrictions on exports, may be necessary to prevent or remedy a critical situation resulting from shortages of essential products and to implement international commitments undertaken by the eu or by all eu countries, in particular as regards trade in commodities. the proposal under discussion is confined to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes, preserving the content of the codified acts in its entirety and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself.
in writing. the proposal under discussion, which concerns a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports, is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts, at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier for citizens to understand. the principle of freedom of export is established by the ec regulation no 1061/2009 in which exports from the european union to non-eu countries are free from quantitative restrictions. at the same time, any protective measures which may be necessary shall be adopted by the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. the latter may also take such measures where immediate action is required. it was simply a matter of systematising existing legislation.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to hear and determine the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, and to adopt the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate the gabonese state on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting gabon's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have links with the gabonese community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very frequently when a couple separates, and the convention addresses this type of situation at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. gabon has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, the seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. this is how children of gabonese origin residing in the eu are protected from abduction.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction has been ratified by all eu member states, with a total of 86 signatory states. the convention aims to protect the child at international level from the effects of wrongful removal or retention and to lay down the procedures for ensuring the child's immediate return to the state of his or her habitual residence and for ensuring the protection of the right of access. most often, the problem arises when separated parents with different nationalities try to secure custody of their children by taking advantage of the lack of cooperation between the competent authorities, in this case the courts. the courts of both states generally claim to be the only competent authority to clarify these situations. this convention, for its part, will establish that the competent authorities and the laws to be applied are those of the state where the child resides. because of the importance of this convention for the protection of children, i am voting in favour of gabon's accession to it.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the gabonese community, the acceptance by the member states of gabon's accession is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and gabon's accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. in this report too, we are faced with a proposal to resolve conflicts of territorial jurisdiction in the matter of international child abduction, allowing member states to accept gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention. since the conditions are the same as those already mentioned for other contracting states, i consider it essential that the member states accept their accession, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania, andorra, armenia, gabon, morocco, singapore, seychelles, russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise participation in international organisations such as the european union. the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, the seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. child abduction often occurs when a couple separates and the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. gabon has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of minors.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate andorra on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting andorra's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have ties to the andorran community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation very often occurs when a couple separates and the convention resolves such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. andorra has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. children of andorran origin residing in the eu are thus protected from abduction.
in writing. this proposal for a report is part of a set of eight reports which seek to validate the accession of different countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. because of the importance of this convention for the protection and well-being of children at international level, i am in favour of approving this initiative, since these countries will be covered by clear international standards on child abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the andorran community, the acceptance by the member states of the accession of andorra is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and the accession of andorra to the hague convention must be welcomed.
in writing. we are once again faced with a proposal which aims to resolve conflicts of territorial jurisdiction in the field of international child abduction, in this case the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention. since the assumptions are equivalent to those already mentioned for other contracting states and andorra being a principality located between northern spain and southern france, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. andorra has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of minors.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate seychelles on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting seychelles' accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have ties to the seychelles community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very frequently when a couple separates, and the convention addresses this type of situation at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. seychelles has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. this is how seychelles children residing in the eu are protected from abduction.
in writing. the numerous cases of international child abduction make ratification of this convention an essential step towards ensuring that no child is improperly or unlawfully removed from his or her place of habitual residence. since seychelles' accession to the 1980 hague convention will strengthen the protection of children at international level, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the seychelles community, the acceptance by the member states of the accession of seychelles is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and seychelles' accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a fundamental instrument of cooperation between the contracting states with regard to international child abduction. the seychelles is also a country with close relations with the european union, which receives and welcomes many citizens of seychelles origin. for this reason, it seems logical to me that the member states should accept the accession of this country to the convention.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the seychelles have deposited their instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of this agreement, since it is contrary to the interests of minors.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate the russian state on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting russia's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have ties to the russian community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation very often occurs when a couple separates and the convention resolves such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. russia has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. thus, children of russian origin residing in the eu are protected from abduction.
in writing. in order to ensure that this convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is applied uniformly and consistently in the union, since all member states are signatories, and considering that the union has exclusive competence in matters of international child abduction, the european commission, in the interest of the union, adopted in december 2011 eight proposals concerning the declarations of acceptance by member states of the accession of eight third states to the 1980 hague convention. following the opinion of the court of justice of the union, which upheld exclusive external competence, contrary to the council's opinion, the commission presented these accession proposals to parliament and the council. given the importance of this convention, i consider it extremely important that russia should vote in favour of its accession, which would oblige it to respect the agreement at international level.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the russian community, the acceptance by the member states of russia's accession is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and russia's accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. the aim of accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is to reduce conflicts of territorial jurisdiction in this area and to ensure that in situations of abduction the immediate return of abducted children to their state of residence is guaranteed. i therefore considered it essential to vote in favour of this report in order to ensure that russia, a country with which the european union has close political and economic ties, is accepted as a contracting party to this convention. it is also noted that we voted on eight such reports at this plenary session.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. child abduction often occurs when a couple separates and the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. russia has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of minors.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate the albanian state on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting albania's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have links with the albanian community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very frequently when a couple separates, and the convention addresses this type of situation at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. albania has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. children of albanian origin residing in the eu are thus protected from abduction.
i vote in favour of albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention, because i believe that through the international obligations laid down by this convention, the signatory states will have a legal environment conducive to safeguarding the real interests of children and custody and visitation issues in the contracting states.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the albanian community, the acceptance by the member states of the accession of albania is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and albania's accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. considering that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a fundamental instrument of cooperation between contracting states with regard to international child abduction, i voted in favour of this report, with the aim of promoting concerted and rapid solutions to help solve these crimes on an increasingly global scale. as albania is a neighbour of the european union, with many citizens residing in european countries and where such conflicts may arise, it is essential that the member states accept albania's accession to the convention as a means of protecting children against abduction throughout the european union.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. albania has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of minors.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate singapore on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting singapore's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have links with the singaporean community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very frequently when a couple separates, and the convention addresses this type of situation at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. singapore has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. this is how singaporean children living in the eu are protected from abduction.
in writing. as i have shown my vote in favour of the accession process to the 1980 hague convention for gabon, andorra, the seychelles, russia, albania, morocco and armenia, i consider it important that singapore is one of the contracting countries, so that this same convention has an increasing number of countries, which will give it more strength on the international scene.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the singaporean community, acceptance by the member states of singapore's accession is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and singapore's accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. singapore is one of the countries with which the european union has political, diplomatic and economic ties. i therefore considered it essential to vote in favour of this report so that the member states, in respect of their respective territories, accept the accession of singapore to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, with the aim of reducing conflicts of territorial jurisdiction in this area and ensuring that in abduction situations the immediate return of abducted children to their state of residence is safeguarded.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. singapore has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of children.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate the kingdom of morocco on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting morocco's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have ties to the moroccan community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation very often occurs when a couple separates and the convention resolves such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. morocco has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. this is how moroccan children living in the eu are protected from abduction.
in writing. i am in favour of morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention, as the goodwill of the kingdom of morocco shows the importance of this issue in the multilateral context. i believe that only a global and common response can facilitate the resolution of disputes and at the same time take into account the child's welfare.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the moroccan community, the acceptance by the member states of the accession of morocco is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and morocco's accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. we are once again faced with a proposal to resolve conflicts of territorial jurisdiction in the field of international child abduction, in this case the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention. as the assumptions are equivalent to those already mentioned for other contracting states and as morocco is an eu partner country in the european neighbourhood policy, with many citizens living and working in european countries, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. morocco has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of minors.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the hautala report in this respect and congratulate armenia on its accession to the convention, thus taking a step forward in protecting its children against abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. as the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to obtain custody of the children. in these cases, the main problem lies in the nationalist tendencies of the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of the countries concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. i voted in favour of accepting armenia's accession to the hague convention in the best interests of minors who have ties to the armenian community and who will thus be protected against abduction.
the hague convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very frequently when a couple separates, and the convention addresses this type of situation at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. child abduction occurs quite frequently when a couple with members from different states separates. without going into some of the considerations made during this debate, concerning the legal systems of each state, it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare themselves both competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the national parent of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level. its objectives are to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. they are fair and relevant objectives. armenia has deposited its instrument of accession to the convention. the eu now has competences in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the eu. however, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise the participation of international organisations such as the eu. for this reason, the council had to take a successive decision to approve the application for accession by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia. we voted in favour.
in writing. with armenia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, the eu takes another step towards achieving one of its priorities, which is the protection and promotion of the rights of the child. thus, children of armenian origin residing in the eu are protected from abduction.
the application by an increasing number of countries to accede to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction demonstrates the need for common rules to be applied at international level, which can respond in a fair and equitable manner to the differences in existing legal systems. the convention itself also aims to reduce and prevent violations of custody and access rights that may occur. for the reasons set out above, i am in favour of armenia's application for membership.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu member states, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction, which very often occur as a result of divorces and separations of parents from different states. more specifically, the convention, seeking to counteract the nationalistic tendency of the legal systems of each state, provides that such cases must be tried by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the state of residence of the child and also provides for a system ensuring the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. although this is currently a matter of exclusive external competence of the eu, the truth is that the convention does not provide for independent intervention by international organisations. to this end, and in order to ensure the protection of minors with links to the armenian community, the acceptance by the member states of the accession of armenia is necessary. the present proposal for a council decision calls for such acceptance. i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is an important instrument with regard to the civil aspects of international child abduction. the fact that it is a system of cooperation between the different states makes it easier to find solutions to a problem which persists to this day. the strengthening of legislative systems must be an imperative and armenia's accession to the hague convention should be welcomed.
in writing. in the case of this report on armenia, we are also faced with a proposal to resolve conflicts of territorial jurisdiction in the matter of international child abduction by allowing member states to accept their accession to the 1980 hague convention. since the conditions are the same as those already mentioned for other contracting states, i consider it essential that the member states accept their accession, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the main purpose of this convention is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the following countries have deposited their instruments of accession to the convention: albania; andorra; armenia; gabon; morocco; singapore; seychelles; russia. the european union now has competence in the field of the convention, in accordance with the decision 1/13 of the court of justice of the european union. however, although member states no longer have this competence, the 1980 hague convention does not recognise membership of international organisations such as the european union, and the council has therefore taken a successive decision to approve the application for membership by gabon, andorra, seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia.
in writing. the objective of the convention in question is to ensure the prompt return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the rapporteur believes that the main problem is the nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each member state. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. armenia has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is contrary to the interests of minors.
in writing. all member states have to indicate the names of the candidates elected to the european parliament and to examine complaints about the validity of the election of certain members. at this stage there are still delays or the failure to communicate the names of the elected candidates, as well as unresolved cases. for the smooth functioning of the european institutions, in particular parliament, and for the member states to communicate swiftly to the european parliament not only the names of all the elected candidates but also the list of any substitutes and to conclude without delay the examination of the disputes submitted to them and to inform parliament of the results.
in writing. the committee on legal affairs has competence to verify the credentials of members. this report, which includes the list of elected members, reports on the results of the direct elections to the european parliament which took place from 22 to 25 may 2014, on the basis of official communications from all member states on the final results of those elections. the rapporteur highlights several important aspects, such as the fact that some nationals of certain member states who have resided in another country for a certain period of time may have been deprived of the right to vote in their home member state, which in some cases may also imply the deprivation of the right to stand as a candidate. the rapporteur rightly believes that depriving citizens who have exercised their right to free movement within the eu of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the member state of residence amounts to a punishment and violates the principle of direct universal suffrage. it calls on the commission to ensure that no member state provides for such a possibility. it also calls on the member states to simplify the registration formalities for the participation of nationals of other member states in european elections, both as voters and as candidates, in particular by removing unnecessary administrative barriers. we voted in favour.
in writing. this formal act validates the names of all the meps elected in the 28 member states in the elections of 22-25 may 2014, thus concluding this process. i wish all members the very best of luck in carrying out their mandates.
in writing. the european act concerning the election of the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage was published on 20 september 1976. in 1976, the posts which are incompatible with the office of member of the european parliament were defined and the professional activities they hold, as well as any other paid functions or activities, were identified. i am in favour of this report which criticises the fact that some individuals from certain member states who have resided in another country for a certain period of time have been deprived of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in their home member state, as has happened in the united kingdom. i also believe that all member states should send the list of members elected to the european parliament as quickly as possible, together with the names of all the substitutes, should it become necessary to replace the elected members.
in writing. this decision concerns the verification of the credentials of the members of the european parliament elected from 22 to 25 may 2014. under article 12 of the act of 20 september 1976 and article 3 (3) and (4) of the rules of procedure, the european parliament is to verify the credentials of its members by recording the results officially proclaimed by the member states and by deciding on any complaints made on the basis of the act, with the exception of those based on national electoral laws. however, given that all members have submitted declarations of incompatible duties and declarations of financial interests and that no complaints have been lodged under the 1976 act to date, the committee on legal affairs, which is responsible for this matter, proposes that, subject to any decisions by the competent authorities of the member states in which the election results have been contested, the mandates of the members listed in the annex be declared valid. i voted in favour, also joining the concerns expressed about the deprivation of the right to vote and the simplification of registration formalities for the participation of nationals of other member states in european elections.
in writing. the transparency effort should be inherent in the european parliament and the role of mep. the proposal is precisely a constant check to identify those aspects which need to be corrected or simplified as quickly as possible, such as those relating to the deprivation of the right to vote and the exercise of the right to vote of citizens in their member state of residence after they have exercised their right to free movement within the eu.
in writing. i support this report by the committee on legal affairs on the verification of the credentials of the members of the european parliament elected between 22 and 25 may, in so far as it is based on the legal framework for the election of members of the european parliament. the final step in this legislative framework, which began with the formal submission of applications and culminated in the european parliament's own verification of credentials, is thus completed.
in writing. the report calls on the member states to simplify registration formalities for the participation of nationals of other member states in european elections, both as voters and as candidates, in particular by removing unnecessary administrative barriers, and asks the commission to ensure that member states' practices are in line with eu law. in this connection, it declares valid, subject to any decisions adopted by the competent authorities of the member states in which the election results have been contested, the mandate of members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the competent national authorities. we have nothing to object to or comment on.
in writing. pursuant to point 10 of section xvi of annex vi to the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs has jurisdiction to scrutinise the credentials of members. this report, which includes the list of elected members, reports on the results of the direct elections to the european parliament which took place from 22 to 25 may 2014, on the basis of official communications from all member states on the final results of those elections. we voted in favour of this report which includes precise information on some worrying irregularities in the electoral process which need to be resolved in the near future: nationals of certain member states who have resided in another country for a certain period of time may have been deprived of the right to vote in their member state of origin; the commission has also proposed that the united kingdom should be allowed to take part in the european elections. the rapporteur advocates simplifying the registration formalities for the participation of nationals of other member states in european elections, both as voters and as candidates, in particular by removing unnecessary administrative barriers, which could help to avoid the problem.
in writing. with the report by mrs ayala sender we are facilitating the crossborder enforcement of road safety legislation. it is crucial to speed up the exchange of information on infringements and to ensure a high level of protection for eu drivers. i am convinced that this legislation will help to reduce the number of offences committed by drivers from other member states and will create a strong deterrent for these drivers, since an offence committed in another member state can be charged to the driver in the member state of residence. the directive 2011/82/ec on the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, adopted on 25 october 2011, which had been declared invalid by the court of justice of the eu on legal grounds, is thus re-adopted. the new text respects the court's judgment by introducing a new legal basis, namely transport safety, and adds the territorial scope of application to denmark, the united kingdom and ireland.
in writing. this directive aims to ensure a high level of protection for all road users on the union road network by facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences and, consequently, the application of penalties where such offences are committed with a vehicle registered in a member state other than that in which the offence was committed. i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to reduce the number of road accidents which cause the death and temporary or permanent disability of thousands of european and national citizens every year.
in writing. the court of justice of the eu had ruled that transport safety is the appropriate legal basis. the content of the provisions of the directive demonstrated that the system of exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states, on which the directive was based, was the means and not the objective of the directive, which was simply to improve road safety. although it declared the directive invalid, the court recognised its relevance and stated that, in order to avoid a legal vacuum, the provisions of the annulled directive should be maintained for 12 months. the commission has therefore put forward a new proposal for a directive, which deserves my agreement, although it was responsible for promoting the request for annulment, since it was the first to show interest in presenting to parliament, as soon as possible, a new text to replace the text of the directive only in the points relating to the legal basis and the territorial scope of application. this directive should be adopted before 6 may 2015 in order to avoid a legal limbo in almost all member states that have already incorporated the provisions of the repealed directive into their national law. i voted in favour, recalling that we have always considered it a priority to ensure maximum road safety.
in writing. this directive aims to ensure greater protection for all road users in the various member states by facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences and, consequently, the application of penalties where such offences are committed with a vehicle registered in a member state other than that in which the offence was committed. the offences covered by the directive are speeding, failure to use a seat belt, failure to stop at a red traffic light, driving under the influence of alcohol, driving under the influence of psychotropic substances, failure to wear a safety helmet, driving in a restricted lane and the unlawful use of a mobile phone or other communication device while driving. the amendment proposed by the european commission aims to amend the legal basis, following the decision of the european court of justice, while maintaining the existing level of protection. these are relevant and justified amendments. the amendments introduced by the report are designed to ensure that the processing of vehicle registration data containing personal data is subject to specific data protection provisions. we voted in favour.
in writing. this proposal takes over the text of directive 2011/82/eu on the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, adopted by a large majority in the european parliament and unanimously in the council in 2011, with the exception of two qualitatively significant amendments. on the one hand, the change in the legal basis and subsequent technical amendments and, on the other hand, because of this new legal basis for transport, the extension of the scope to the three member states which were excluded from the previous directive.
in writing. the court of justice of the european union has upheld the european commission's request to challenge the legal basis of directive 2011/82/eu, which was approved by the european parliament and the council. the directive was repealed but its effects remained in force, within a reasonable period which could not exceed 12 months, until a new directive was adopted on the basis of article 91 (1) (c) tfeu on road safety. the content of the directive is only subject to technical amendments, in particular with regard to data protection. the commission has thus identified eight infringements of the traffic rules which may lead to crossborder exchange of information, in particular when the infringement is committed by a vehicle registered in a member state other than that in which the infringement was committed. countries such as the united kingdom, ireland and denmark will have a transitional period for applying it, as they were not covered under the previous legal basis. this approval is the right decision for a concrete policy on road safety. i believe that when it is revised in 2016, it would be important to consider the possibility of including new infringements, in particular toll non-payment.
in writing. directive 2011/82/eu on the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences aimed to end impunity for foreign vehicles on union roads and ensure road safety in the eu. foreign drivers enjoyed a certain impunity for crossborder offences, as the competent authorities did not know the address of the owner of the vehicle. in 2014, the court of justice found that that directive had been adopted on the basis of an incorrect legal basis and declared it invalid. it nevertheless acknowledged its relevance, stating that the provisions of the directive would remain in place for 12 months in order to avoid a legal vacuum and allow the legislator to adopt a new text. the commission therefore proposed a new text to adapt the judgment: it introduces transport safety as a legal basis, adds denmark, the united kingdom and ireland to the territorial scope of application and provides for adjustments as regards the implementing rules on data protection. i think it is essential to avoid a legal vacuum in a priority area such as road safety, so i voted in favour.
in writing. all measures aimed at improving road safety are welcome, especially when they aim to fill a legal gap related to the end of impunity for foreign vehicles on union roads, allowing all europeans to be treated equally. however, as the rapporteur has pointed out, special attention should be paid to the necessary protection of personal data.
in writing. following the judgment of the court of justice of the eu of 6/05/2014 in case c-43/12, which found that directive 2011/82/eu was adopted on the basis of an incorrect legal basis - that concerning police cooperation, the cjeu decided that transport safety should be the appropriate legal basis. the present proposal, which aims at creating a new directive amending directive 2011/82/eu on the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, is based on two fundamental changes to the previous text: on the one hand, the creation of a new legal basis for the field of transport safety and, on the other hand, the extension of the scope to the three member states that had decided not to accede to the previous directive - denmark, the united kingdom and ireland. the commission is therefore proposing to adopt a proposal on traffic offences which aims to avoid a legal vacuum in almost all the member states which have already incorporated the provisions of the repealed directive into their national law. i therefore considered it appropriate, necessary and urgent to vote in favour of this report on one of the areas considered to be one of the political priorities of the union: road safety.
in writing. this discussion arises from confusion about the legal basis of the directive which was consensual and necessary. with this revision, we have noted as positive its updating with the introduction of new types of infringements and greater guarantees in terms of data protection. the directive will certainly put an end to a certain feeling of impunity, but it will certainly not work miracles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of road safety inspections. in this respect, we are very concerned about the public-private partnership model which dominates road construction in europe and particularly in portugal. the result is high-priced toll roads that push much of the population onto secondary roads of poor quality and at great cost to the safety of the towns. this is just one example. palliative care is necessary, but it does not eliminate the need for background treatment.
the fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal was terminated in 2006, which resulted in a drastic reduction in the number of eu tuna trawlers in senegalese waters. in this context, the european commission negotiated a renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european union on sustainable fisheries. one of the principles of the agreement is to ensure a level playing field for eu fleets by not granting more favourable conditions to fleets other than those set out in the agreement, provided that the vessels have the same characteristics and catch the same species. in addition, the satellite monitoring system and the cooperation established between the eu and the republic of senegal on vessel monitoring and tracking in senegalese waters will help the local authorities to step up their fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. i voted in favour of this agreement because it provides for adequate support for the fisheries sector at local level, defines the exploitation of fisheries resources in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing and constitutes an economic opportunity for the union's fisheries sector.
the fisheries sector accounts for only 1.3% of senegal's real gdp and eur 136 million of total exports, which are estimated at eur 1.7 billion. the report estimates that in 2011 the total exports of senegalese fishery products to the eu (mostly frozen) was approximately 40 000 tonnes. senegal also plays a key role in the landing of products from both artisanal and industrial fisheries, with some 400 000 tonnes of products landed, of which 90% come from artisanal fisheries and less than 50 000 tonnes from industrial fisheries. the reports concluded that the conclusion of a new partnership could be beneficial to both parties, helping both the republic of senegal and the european union to create jobs. the eu commits itself to ensuring that at least 20% of the seamen on board its vessels fishing in senegalese waters are from senegal or an acp country. the total amount of the financial contribution provided is eur 13 930 000.
in writing. this is another agreement in the west african tuna fisheries agreement network. the first fisheries agreement concluded between the eu and senegal dates from 2002 and expired in 2006. the new protocol has a duration of five years. the financial contribution provided for is eur 13 930 000, of which eur 5 240 000 is paid by the shipowners for access to fishing authorisations and eur 8 690 000 for compensation for access to resources and sectoral support. the licences will be distributed in full to the spanish and french fleets (36 tuna vessels and 2 trawlers), as no other member states (such as portugal) have expressed an interest in the fishing opportunities created by this agreement. despite the ill-conceived agreement on the problems and limitations common to other fisheries agreements, particularly as regards the effectiveness and efficiency of sectoral support, we consider it acceptable for both parties to conclude it. the fisheries control measures provided for in senegalese waters under this agreement to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported (iuu) fishing shall be positively registered.
in writing. the republic of senegal is a coastal state in west africa sharing its maritime borders with the republic of guinea-bissau, the republic of the gambia, the cape verde archipelago and the islamic republic of mauritania. with the exception of the borders with mauritania to the north and guinea-bissau to the south, the maritime borders of the republic of senegal are defined and recognised by mutual agreement. the total amount of the financial contribution provided for in this agreement is eur 13 930 000. this amount shall be distributed as follows: (a) eur 8 690 000 in the form of financial compensation for the annual financial compensation (based on a reference tonnage of 14 000 tonnes per year for highly migratory species) and for support for the development of senegal's sectoral fisheries policy; (b) eur 5 240 000, corresponding to the estimated amount of fees payable by shipowners for fishing licences. this agreement will be beneficial to both parties and will enable senegal's economic development, helping its people to live better and have better living conditions.
in writing. the european commission negotiated the renewal of the agreement between the government of the republic of senegal and the european union on fishing off the coast of senegal, thereby fixing fishing opportunities for european vessels against financial compensation. the agreement provides for 28 tuna seiners, 8 reelers and 2 trawlers (directed fishing for blackfish, a deep-sea species) to be allowed to fish in the waters of the republic of senegal in return for financial compensation of eur 1 808 000 in the first year, eur 1 738 000 in the second, third and fourth years and eur 1 668 000 in the fifth year. i am in favour of this agreement which allows the capture of 14 000 tonnes of tuna and an authorized catch of 2 000 tonnes for the blackfish.
in writing. the renewal of the eu-senegal sustainable fisheries partnership agreement aims to establish a new framework for cooperation, ensuring a level playing field for the union fleets. the protocol will be in force for five years and three categories of vessels will be authorized to fish in senegalese waters: 28 tuna seiners, 8 reed-fishing vessels and 2 trawlers (targeted for bluefin tuna). the financial contribution provided for is eur 13 930 000, of which eur 8 690 000 will be used for the annual financial compensation and support for the development of senegal's fisheries sector policy. given the opportunities for senegal's economy to prosper through better exploitation of existing fisheries resources, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries and good practice in the sector, i believe that the new agreement and the new protocol are beneficial to both parties. i therefore voted in favour.
the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal is an asset for both parties, and in particular for the european union, as it has the potential to increase its economic activity in the region. satellite monitoring is also important in helping local authorities to step up their fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. this recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol, which will be in force for five years, deserves my vote in favour, as it will allow the renewal of an agreement which expired in 2006, following the first agreement which had entered into force as early as 1981. the termination of the agreement in 2006 resulted in a drastic reduction in the number of tuna seiners in senegalese waters: of the 18 eu-flagged tuna vessels operating there, only two were able to continue their activities and a new agreement was therefore urgently needed. the conclusion of this agreement will ensure a level playing field for the union fleets by preserving, conserving and exploiting the fisheries resources of the region in a sustainable manner and will guarantee the conditions for supporting senegal's sectoral fisheries policy (1,3% of gdp), in particular through the financial contribution of eur 13 930 000, granted in respect of the country's sovereignty and legitimate aspirations and objectives in this sector.
in writing. the european union's fisheries agreements with third countries provide opportunities to provide, in a fair and clear way, sites with resources that can be exploited sustainably, to promote good use of the sea by providing third countries with the tools to combat illegal, irregular or unreported fishing, and to contribute to the development of third countries by providing fair payment for the use of their endogenous resources. the fisheries agreement with senegal is part of this. unlike other fisheries agreements, this one defines target species and some of the protected species. these facts are welcome. however, the agreement lacks mention of many of the protected species, including whales, dolphins, turtles and seabirds, and methodologies to avoid their disturbance. it is also noted that appendix 4 on protected areas does not yet contain information. it would be appropriate that this information should be available at this time and without prejudice to future changes. finally, it is noted that the fishing observation system, although controlled by the third country, is not entirely borne by the shipowners. a quarterly contribution of eur 100 as provided for in the agreement seems insufficient for this purpose.
the first agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal in the fisheries sector entered into force on 1 june 1981. the protocol expired in 2006. there was then a drastic reduction in the number of tuna-fishing vessels in senegalese waters. in this context, the council authorised the european commission to negotiate a renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european economic community, giving rise to a proposal for the conclusion of a new partnership agreement in the field of sustainable fisheries. this is an economically reasonable agreement, taking into account the fishing opportunities available, and ensuring the basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the fisheries resources concerned. it also provides for fair support and sufficient conditions for the local fisheries sector.
in writing. i welcome the decision of the european parliament, to which i contributed, to continue the work of the tdip committee, which i had the honour of chairing, on the use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. in the light of the facts known from the publication, albeit partial, of the report of the united states senate on the use of torture by the cia, it is clear that both the member states and the united states lied in 2007. it is also clear that there are facts yet to be clarified and responsibilities yet to be ascertained. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. and after the historic report by the us senate, no one would understand the ep pretending that nothing had happened.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to express my strong condemnation of the cia's secret detention and prisoner surrender programme, which is responsible for numerous human rights violations, including through secret detention without trial, the use of torture and other forms of inhumane treatment, without respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, and to express my support for measures that can prevent the repetition of these practices in the future.
the eu has always developed internal security and counter-terrorism policies based on police and judicial cooperation and the promotion of the sharing of security information, respecting fundamental rights and the rule of law. relations between the eu and the us are based on a strong partnership and cooperation in a number of areas, based on common and shared values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the effectiveness of counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory but rather complementary and mutually reinforcing objectives. however, respect for fundamental rights is an indispensable component of the success of counter-terrorism policies. therefore, member states conducting independent and effective investigations into human rights violations related to the cia programme need to base their investigations on sound forensic evidence and respect for national judicial systems, eu and international law, the primacy of national security and the sensitive aspects of any ongoing criminal investigations.
in writing. although the resolution condemns the practice of torture by the cia, as well as the participation or complicity of some member states in these atrocious and inhumane acts, it falls short of what is necessary in its political assessment of this process. it should be noted that the atrocities committed, which are the subject of the us senate report (which is far from exhaustive), have concrete political responsibility, well identifiable both george bush and barack obama given the direct articulation of this agency with the presidency. it should be noted that this widespread practice had as its victims enemies of the united states or just suspects and as perpetrators of torture not only the cia but also the military forces and mercenaries in the pay of the american administration. and that the figures mentioned in the us senate report are just the tip of the iceberg to shed light on the real and brutal scale of the us use of torture. and all this in a country that claims to be the world's largest democracy or the leader of the free world, always willing to mobilize its own resources and regiment allies to impose its vision of human rights on the world.
the united states senate report on the use of torture by the cia raises and publicizes a set of practices that have been carried out worldwide and in particular in the member states of the european union. it is to be congratulated that these facts have been made public. on the other hand, we deplore the shocking interrogation practices that characterize the operations carried out by the cia. while acknowledging some of the positive steps that this report points out, namely that it has contributed to a better understanding of the role of the cia and its methods, we believe that this report should go further in condemning the countries that have been complicit in these practices.
in writing. i agree that respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is an indispensable element for the success of counter-terrorism policies. access to citizens' data on any communication platform should not be free and indiscriminate. however, we cannot ignore the fight against terrorism either, and the current system of information sharing has already been responsible for saving countless lives. we must be sensitive to these two views of the same problem and find a balance so that we protect the fundamental rights of citizens and, on the other hand, do not relax the fight against terrorism, otherwise it will again claim human lives. i have voted against this resolution, however, because i think that a certain left wing continues to mix up unrelated issues and topics, in particular the inclusion in this resolution of an item on the reopening of the case concerning the infamous cia flights.
in writing. this resolution underlines that respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is an indispensable component of the success of counter-terrorism policies. in this regard, and in the belief that the international fight against terrorism and international bilateral or multilateral cooperation in this field must be conducted with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and under adequate democratic and judicial control, i join in condemning the cia's detention and interrogation program and the enhanced interrogation techniques used in this context, which are prohibited by us and international law. furthermore, and given that an appropriate principle of accountability is indispensable to preserve citizens' trust in democratic institutions and to protect human rights, the publication of the summary report of the us senate select committee on intelligence on the cia detention and interrogation program, as well as the investigations by several member states into allegations of involvement in the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia, should be welcomed as positive steps demonstrating the willingness of political actors to establish accountability.
the release of the report on the cia's detention and interrogation program has a bittersweet flavor. on the one hand, we welcome the publication of this report by the select committee on intelligence of the united states senate. on the other hand, it is regrettable that the shocking interrogation practices that have characterized cia operations have been used. in the context of this report, it is also very concerned about all the obstacles and obstacles placed in the way of judicial investigations in national parliaments which were involved in counter-terrorism operations with the cia. we must quickly rethink what to do about the illegal detentions of prisoners in european countries by the cia. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community.
in writing. the european union, in the field of its internal security policy and the fight against terrorism, bases its action on police and judicial cooperation and the promotion of the sharing of security information, always in respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law. for this reason, close cooperation between member states and between the eu and the us in combating and countering terrorism is essential. my vote in favour of this report is based on the fact that i subscribe to the position that the international fight against terrorism and international bilateral or multilateral cooperation in this field must be conducted with full respect for human rights and under appropriate democratic and judicial scrutiny and control, so that transatlantic cooperation can fully function at the level of the alliance against this global threat.
this report has the merit of lifting the veil on a range of practices carried out by the cia throughout the world and in particular in european union countries. it thus reveals the true face of that country, which proclaims itself the champion of democracy and human rights. the report does not go as far as it should, but it does end by pointing out some positive measures which may contribute to a better understanding of the role of the cia and its methods. it should go further in condemning the imperialist policies behind and on behalf of whom these practices arise. it should also go further in condemning the countries which have supported these practices in their respective countries. in many cases, these are countries of the european union, where human rights should be respected, but which have been complicit in the torture and the whole range of practices that undermine human dignity described in the report.
in writing. although the resolution euphemistically condemns the practice of torture by the cia and the participation or complicity of some member states in these atrocious and inhumane acts, it falls short in its political assessment of this process. it should be noted that the inventory of horrors and atrocities that the us senate report contains is a roll of the crimes for which both george bush and barack obama are responsible, given the direct link between this agency and the presidency. and that this widespread practice had as its victims enemies of the united states or just suspects and as actors of torture not only the cia but also the military forces and mercenaries in the pay of the american administration. and that the figures mentioned in the us senate report are just the tip of the iceberg to shed light on the real and brutal scale of the us use of torture. and all this in a country that claims to be the world's most important democracy or the leader of the free world, always willing to mobilize its own resources and regiment allies to impose its vision of human rights on the world. the full assessment of the member states' involvement in this process should remain the responsibility of national parliaments and/or national judicial authorities.
in writing. i support this resolution on terrorism, which i am voting in favour of. i think it is very important that parliament has a common position shared by a number of politicians which reflects our commitment to combating terrorism and protecting its victims. we cannot give in to the pressure of the moment or make a deal with simplistic and demagogic speeches such as those which link immigration to terrorism and call schengen into question. this resolution contains a comprehensive view of terrorism. it recognises the need for further measures, without prejudice to the evaluation and optimum use of the instruments already in place. on the other hand, and not least, it does not call into question the rights, freedoms and guarantees of european citizens in the name of a so-called security.
in writing. terrorism, radicalisation and violent extremism are today major threats to international peace and security and constitute major challenges to the stability of eu member states and to individual security and freedom. i voted in favour of the resolution in strong condemnation of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris and to stress the need for better practices and the proper implementation of instruments to prevent and combat terrorism and radicalisation at local, national, european and global levels.
in writing. terrorism, radicalisation and violent extremism represent some of the greatest threats to our security and freedoms. the fight against terrorism must be based on a pluralist approach aimed at directly countering the preparation of attacks on the territory of the union, but also integrating the need to tackle the root causes of terrorism. the latest attack in paris, which i strongly condemn, has had a significant impact on the sense of security of eu citizens and residents who are facing the serious and growing threat posed by so-called foreign fighters, that is, individuals who move to a country other than their country of residence or nationality to commit or plan terrorist acts, to give or receive terrorist training, including in the context of armed conflicts, and who will be around 3500. i personally categorically condemn all acts of terrorism, the promotion of terrorism, the glorification of individuals involved in terrorism and the promotion of violent and extremist ideologies.
in writing. we strongly condemn the terrorist acts that have occurred in france. we condemn all the attacks that have occurred in many countries of the world. in this condemnation, we do not exclude, as the majority of parliament does in this resolution, the state terrorism practiced by countries such as israel in palestine, syria and lebanon, or the use of unmanned aircraft (drones) by the us against defenseless populations in africa, the middle east or asia. the need to take measures to combat the financing of terrorism and at the same time maintain privileged relations with countries such as turkey or saudi arabia, which finance, train and support terrorist groups, is a clear contradiction that reveals a certain hypocrisy. the firm fight against terrorism, inside and outside the eu, requires that the root causes of terrorism be tackled; it requires a profound change in policies, respect for international law and the un charter; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, and that it can in no way legitimise the repressive and unfair practice of violating the rights, freedoms and guarantees which is advocated in this resolution.
in writing. while agreeing with much of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures, the subtext and nuances of a european-level response are problematic. this is because it creates a narrative that creates a division between us europeans and them immigrants. because it says that terrorism is the result of immigration which is, by the way, the national front speech in france. it is to try to lump everything together, to deceive people by exploiting fear politically and mixing two totally different issues. it is also to insist on a wrong response which has proven to be a complete failure on the part of the member states to promote the policing and the constant persecution of immigrants and to maintain their non-recognition as full citizens. it is not intended to solve social, political or humanitarian crises. it is only intended to push humanitarian catastrophes far, far away from europe. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. i believe that all instruments are important in the fight against terrorism. we cannot be naive enough to think that terrorists will not always use all the means at their disposal to achieve their aims. we must likewise use every means at our disposal to combat them. i therefore agree that the pnr instrument should be used to combat terrorism. the ep should make every effort to adopt all the measures necessary to combat terrorism effectively.
in writing. the tragic events in paris in january 2015 serve as a warning that the european union faces a permanent and evolving terrorist threat. terrorism is a global threat that must be combated at local, national, european and global levels in order to strengthen citizens' security, defend the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and human rights and preserve international law. this resolution reiterates the need to address the threat of terrorism with a strategy based on a multi-dimensional approach, including by combating the underlying factors of radicalisation, combating cyberterrorism, preventing the displacement of people with a view to joining the ranks of terrorist organisations, ending financial support to terrorist organisations and developing international cooperation on security and data collection. the resolution also rejects any proposal to suspend the schengen system and reaffirms the primacy of respect for international law and fundamental rights in the implementation of counter-terrorism measures. i voted in favour.
in writing. considering that the rise of terrorism and violent extremism poses a threat to our security and individual freedoms, and considering the recent terrorist events in some member states of the european union, it is imperative to act. the definition of plans and strategies against terrorism is important, but respect for the principles enshrined in the charter of human rights must always be taken into account. it is important that there is coordinated work between the different member states and that the action is effective. it is important to develop a comprehensive approach to the fight against terrorism, which must take account of the internal and external dimensions of situations in the european union and beyond.
in writing. security is one of the rights enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights and one of its fundamental pillars, which is why i welcome and support this joint motion for a resolution. the tragic events that have recently taken place in paris have raised the alarm about the danger of a terrorist threat with global dimensions, which must be combated at local, national, european and global levels by adopting preventive measures in the fight against terrorism, based on a multidimensional approach and strategy, combating factors of radicalisation and encouraging violent extremism. to this end, it is essential to end financial support for terrorist organisations, to have an effective criminal procedure and to equip the police authorities with the appropriate instruments to carry out their duties. on the other hand, member states should adopt cohesion and social inclusion policies that promote political and religious tolerance, avoid ghettos and the entry of people into the ranks of terrorist organisations, as well as recruitment and participation in armed conflicts. i agree with the rapporteur that the member states should make use of the existing european platforms, databases and alert systems and that any proposal to suspend the schengen system should be rejected.
in writing. the present brings us acts of barbarism that must be condemned and fought. while we consider the need for short-term measures to deal with the real problems of the people, we must condemn attempts to limit basic citizenship rights, which have nothing to do with terrorist activity, in addition to the fight against terrorism. we must take urgent action against terrorism. and these basic measures are to stop rich countries interfering in the internal affairs of poor countries, using false pretexts to exploit their natural resources and to drain their trade surpluses. serious policy action is urgently needed to combat poverty and unemployment and to promote a better distribution of wealth and income. the solution to the conflicts fomented and fomented by the west which have destabilised the middle east can only be achieved by political means, with a serious approach which respects the sovereignty of peoples and their right to choose their own path of development.
in writing. we also condemn the terrorist acts that took place in france, just as we condemn all the attacks that have taken place in many countries around the world. we do not ignore, as most of the ep does, the state terrorism practiced by countries such as israel in palestine, syria and lebanon, or the use of us drones against defenseless populations in africa, the middle east or asia. the european parliament has also called for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those held in detention, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it is actually an act of consistency on the part of those who have advocated support for terrorist groups, particularly those linked to al-qaeda or the islamic state, in order to destabilise syria or iraq. the firm fight against terrorism, whether inside or outside the eu, requires a profound change in policies and can in no way legitimise the repressive and rights-abusing wave of violence that is being reinforced here, by taking away even more sovereignty from the member states in the field of justice.
in writing. established in 2006, the internet governance forum (igf) has the primary role and function of discussing a wide range of issues related to internet governance and making recommendations to the international community, if necessary. the internet is a key pillar of the digital single market, promoting innovation, growth, trade, cultural diversity and human rights. we must therefore be concerned with expanding access to the internet worldwide, keeping the internet an open and shared resource, rejecting the idea of a state-controlled internet, and recognizing that our fundamental freedoms and human rights are not negotiable and must be protected online. by renewing the igf's mandate, strengthening its resources and maintaining the multilateral model of internet governance, we are contributing to ensuring an open and independent internet in the future, non-discriminatory access to knowledge, the stimulation of growth and employment, the promotion and protection of cultural and linguistic diversity and the legal protection of internet neutrality, which is an indispensable prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of expression.
in writing. the internet is a key pillar of the digital single market and promotes innovation, economic growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights. i voted in favour of this resolution as it is necessary to maintain the multilateral model of internet governance to which the internet governance forum makes a valuable contribution and has already provided lessons on the regulatory aspects of electronic communications, data security and privacy, cybercrime and the protection of critical infrastructure. i also support a neutral intranet and a more active role for the eu in its governance.
in writing. the igf is tasked with discussing a wide range of issues related to internet governance and, if necessary, making recommendations to the international community. the european union's priorities in this area are to expand access to the internet worldwide, to maintain the internet as a global, open and shared resource, to ensure non-discriminatory access to knowledge, to increase the accountability and transparency of the multilateral model of internet governance, to reject the idea of a state-controlled internet, and to recognise that our fundamental freedoms and human rights are not negotiable and must be protected online. for all these reasons, i agree with the renewal of the igf's mandate and the strengthening of its resources, increasing the inclusive participation of all stakeholders.
in writing. the objective of the internet governance forum (igf) is to implement the mandate of the world summit on the information society (wsis) as a contribution to a democratic, transparent and multilateral political dialogue that broadens the range of internet governance issues. the resolution aims to put pressure on the un general assembly to renew the igf's mandate, strengthen its resources and maintain the multilateral model of internet governance. it is also proposed that the eu institutions concerned maintain financial support to the secretariat, to ensure the development of an efficient, independent organisation and thus contribute to the democratisation, openness and neutrality of the internet. these are goals that we feel are appropriate and fair. the internet should be a global resource of wide access to knowledge and information, communication, cultural diversity and freedom of expression. in line with the need to improve secure access, doubts and reservations remain as to the mechanisms and organisations that hold the power to ensure such security. we do not support attempts to push the provision of some services to the private sector, alienating the public service which, in this matter, is the guarantor of social prices for the populations and a secure and universal internet.
the internet is now a global instrument and its management should therefore be guided by the common interest. the internet is today one of the main means of spreading democratic values in the world, and is an indispensable instrument for promoting all kinds of initiatives, political debate and the dissemination of knowledge. the development of the internet is therefore essential if it is to be more equally accessible to all in the eu. it is also essential that it is safe for all its users, in particular for children who are less able to defend themselves against the potential dangers of its use. we must therefore prevent the governance of the internet from being dominated by any single entity or group of entities, so that it maintains its status as a global public good. hence my vote.
in writing. the objective of the internet governance forums (igfs) is to implement the mandate of the world summit on the information society (wsis) with regard to the organisation of forums for democratic, transparent and multilateral political dialogue. the aim is to discuss various issues related to internet governance and to make recommendations to the international community. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the united nations general assembly should continue to support this forum and the european union should take advantage of this process to hold more public debates with the main stakeholders at european level. i also believe that internet access should be improved worldwide, provided that the security and stability of computer services are guaranteed. this access reinforces the maxim, which i also subscribe to, that there should be no barriers to free knowledge by citizens.
in writing. the objective of the internet governance forums (igfs) is to implement the mandate of the world summit on the information society (wsis) with regard to the organisation of forums for democratic, transparent and multilateral political dialogue. the primary role and function of the igf is to discuss a wide range of issues related to internet governance, making recommendations to the international community in this regard, if necessary. the ad hoc delegations sent by the european parliament played a key role in promoting european values and interacting with civil society organisations and representatives of national parliaments present at these events, in collaboration with the member states and the commission. however, considering that the internet is a fundamental pillar of the single market, promoting innovation, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights, and that growth related to the internet economy is expected to reach almost 11% in the eu, i think it is very important to promote this multilateral model of internet governance and to continue the fruitful exchanges carried out in the context of the igf. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the united nations general assembly to renew the mandate of the igf.
in writing. nowadays, the internet is a key pillar of the digital market. increasingly, the internet promotes growth, innovation, trade, cultural diversity and even human rights. the multilateral model of internet governance is an asset and should be supported. to this end, it is important that the member states, and in particular the commission, reinforce the sustainability of this model. however, it is important that efforts are made to ensure the neutrality and legal protection of the internet in order to safeguard the freedom of expression and information, which is so threatened today.
in writing. this proposal builds on the importance of the internet governance forum (igf) for democratic, transparent and multilateral political dialogue, the purpose of which is to implement the mandate of the world summit on the information society, which ends this year. the report, as the text of the report states, calls for an open and independent internet as a common global resource, along with non-discriminatory access to knowledge, and stresses that it is essential to continue efforts to ensure the legal protection of its neutrality, which is an indispensable prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression, stimulating growth and employment by developing innovation and business opportunities related to the internet, and promoting and protecting cultural and linguistic diversity. the eu is also calling for the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the internet. at eu level, it is important to stress the need to support this process through exchanges and policy discussions, as well as financial support to enable the forum to develop as an efficient and independent organisation.
in writing. this proposal aims at renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum (igf), which is a multilateral working platform with the primary function of discussing a wide range of issues related to internet governance, and may even make recommendations to the international community aimed, inter alia, at promoting the expansion of internet access worldwide, ensuring its maintenance as a global resource of broad access to knowledge and information, as well as communication, cultural diversity and freedom of expression. the internet is also a key pillar promoting innovation and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in various sectors of economic activity. notwithstanding issues relating to access to a secure internet and the guarantee of the protection of users' personal data, it is essential to continue the work, thus contributing to its development and deepening, in a multilateral platform that ensures its democratic character and safeguards the interests of the peoples and member states of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum because it addresses the need to improve access to the internet and stresses that the igf should remain as comprehensive as possible. calling for further efforts to ensure the legal protection of net neutrality, which is an indispensable prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression, for stimulating growth and employment by developing internet-related innovation and business opportunities, and for promoting and protecting cultural and linguistic diversity. on the other hand, in considering that fundamental freedoms and human rights are non-negotiable and must be protected, in deploring that some states, citing security concerns, are trying to reduce the worldwide connectivity of their citizens and in rejecting an internet controlled and monitored by states, the text is in line with my convictions. furthermore, by urging the un to renew the igf's mandate, strengthen its resources and maintain the multilateral model of its governance, the resolution embodies a free and democratic vision of internet use by all.
in writing. this resolution aims to press the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum, to strengthen its resources and to maintain the multilateral model of internet governance. it is also proposed that the eu institutions concerned maintain financial support to the secretariat, to ensure the development of an efficient, independent organisation and thus contribute to the democratisation, openness and neutrality of the internet. in line with the need to improve secure access, doubts and reservations remain as to the mechanisms and organisations that hold the power to ensure such security. we do not support attempts to push the provision of some services to the private sector, alienating the public service which in this matter is the guarantor of social prices for the populations and a secure and universal internet.
the labelling of meat and meat products as to country of origin or place of provenance is a major concern for european consumers, especially following a number of food scandals that have become public in recent years. despite the current requirement of mandatory information on unprocessed beef and voluntary information in other cases, fraudulent traceability and information systems in the food chain have not been avoided. in matters of public health and food safety, i believe that a compulsory regime is the most appropriate, contributing on the one hand to a more rigorous system of traceability of products along the food chain and on the other hand to a more informed and transparent choice by the consumer, influencing his behaviour at the time of the choice. such a measure should always take into account the principle of proportionality in the administrative burden for operators in the sector and the competent supervisory authorities, while seeking to minimise its effects on price increases, supply disruptions and food waste.
in writing. according to a study by the european commission, 90% of consumers want to know the origin of the meat used in processed foods. in the wake of the horse meat scandal, the need to provide clear information to consumers and to increase transparency and accountability throughout the food chain has become even more pressing. i voted in favour of this resolution, reflecting the concern of european citizens and calling on the commission to come forward with proposals for the mandatory labelling of the origin of meat in processed foods. at the same time, a level playing field for economic operators in the sector, in particular smes, must be ensured and the necessary measures taken to combat fraud by strengthening controls.
in writing. it is estimated that 30-50% of the total volume of slaughtered meat is processed into meat ingredients for foodstuffs, mainly minced meat, meat preparations and meat products. the consumer should therefore be informed of the country of origin or place of provenance of such meat. indication of origin is mandatory in the eu for unprocessed beef and beef products and this measure should be extended to meat in processed foods. we cannot forget the impact that food fraud can have on food security, consumer health, consumer confidence, the functioning of the food chain and the stability of agricultural prices. the fight against fraud must be given priority.
in writing. from april this year, the indication of the country of origin will be mandatory for unprocessed meat from pigs, goats, sheep and poultry, and has been mandatory since the bse crisis for both processed and unprocessed beef. the resolution proposes making it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed foods. measures are needed to avoid excessive and unjustified administrative burden that the change may impose on the rank and the need to provide for control mechanisms that allow the authorities to ensure the effective implementation of these standards. the aim is greater transparency along the food chain, along with better information for the consumer. if this instrument contributes to more stable relations between suppliers and meat processors and to greater care in the choice of suppliers and products by operators in this sector, favouring proximity, which can result in the enhancement of national production, then it will be positive. we supported this resolution, although we have some doubts about the practical implementation of the measure, which we have already expressed in the debate and in written questions to the european commission. we reserve a final position for the time when the legislative proposals in question are examined.
in writing. this report is positive because it aims to indicate the origin of meat in processed foods on labels in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers, while taking into account their impact assessments and avoiding excessive costs and administrative burdens. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. this resolution calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals to determine the origin of meat in processed foods such as lasagna. it should be mandatory to indicate this on the label of these products in order to better inform consumers and ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain, while avoiding excessive financial and administrative burdens. i have voted against this proposal, however, because i believe that such a requirement will bring unbearable costs to the manufacturing industries, which will not translate into benefits for consumers. the labelling is now voluntary and has been sufficient for consumers to be informed and, if they so wish, to consume only food with the appropriate indication of origin. at a time when it is necessary to give a positive boost to european industry, i do not think it is appropriate to burden it with additional costs by adding information which already exists on a voluntary basis.
in writing. this motion for a resolution identifies some pertinent issues with regard to the labelling issue. the indication on the label of the origin of meat in processed foods, as indicated in the impact study presented by the ec, will lead to an increase in production costs. given that 90% of the companies in the sector are smes, they will have an increased administrative burden. however, labelling of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat or meat products does not in itself prevent fraud, but a rigorous system will allow infringements to be detected and timely dealt with. a better traceability system along the food supply chain will help to make the relationships between suppliers and meat processors more stable and healthy and will allow consumers to make more confident choices. i voted in favour of this proposal for the reasons mentioned above, considering that the european union should reflect on a labelling system that ensures greater traceability and better food safety.
in writing. within the eu, depending on the member state, an estimated 30 to 50% of the total volume of slaughtered meat is processed into meat ingredients for foodstuffs, mainly minced meat, meat preparations and meat products. because indication of origin is already mandatory in the eu for unprocessed beef and beef products, expectations have been created among consumers regarding information on the origin of other types of fresh meat and meat used as an ingredient in processed foods. in fact, a consumer survey carried out in 2013 by the food chain assessment consortium revealed that more than 90% of consumers consider it important that the label indicates the origin. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that greater transparency throughout the food chain will have a positive impact on health and consumer confidence, and will also make it possible to detect fraud.
in writing. the recent developments in some eu member states concerning the sale of processed meat and food are of great concern. the labelling and the mandatory identification of the country of origin of the foodstuffs purchased is an added value for consumers. european consumers must have confidence in the food they eat. the successive food fraud cases which have occurred in recent times and in several member states are worrying. it is essential that consumer information labelling requirements are met, as is the existence of effective legislation to monitor the established parameters and fines for institutions that do not comply with them.
in writing. the present motion for a resolution (non-legislative) concerns the need to indicate on the labelling of products the origin of meat in processed foods in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain. i consider it necessary, in the interests of public health and information for european consumers, that all processed food should include on the label the indication of the origin of the meat used as an ingredient, as it seems to me that this simple fact will ensure better traceability along the food supply chain, more stable relations between suppliers and meat processors and greater diligence in the choice of their suppliers. as regards the impact of this measure on prices, i welcome the fact that the report recommends that the commission submit legislative proposals which avoid excessive financial and administrative burdens. finally, i would also stress the need to encourage the commission to adopt measures to prevent and combat fraud in the food sector. unfortunately, this proposal was not voted for by my group, which wanted these measures to be adopted voluntarily, and only 60 members of the epp voted in favour of this proposal, including myself.
in writing. in theory, we think it is a good thing that information on the origin of the meat used in processed foods can be visible on the label. we could even extend this standard to all the ingredients in these products. we have, however, doubts about the operability of this standard. this issue, as is invariably the case in the european union, is the result of a scandal which has had an impact on the media and which has led the institutions to legislate without a mature reflection on the problems. it's one thing to adulterate a product with the illegal incorporation of horse meat. it is quite another to impose the labelling of the geographical origin of portions of meat incorporated into a processed food without looking at the costs this entails for the rank and file and without looking at whether there are control mechanisms which enable the authorities to ensure that these standards are actually met. in the absence of a closed position on this subject, these are questions that it would be important to discuss without rushing into a rule that will always have a strong impact, especially at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the country of origin labelling of meat in processed foods because the initiative is balanced, proportionate, ensures greater transparency, reflects a commitment to safe and high quality food and is appropriate for the defence of european consumers. following the bse crisis in europe, the horse meat crisis in the uk and, more recently, the minced meat crisis in portugal, all the necessary measures should be taken to prevent and combat fraud in the food sector, which is an integral part of eu policy, in order to address the structural weaknesses of the food chain by increasing and strengthening its control. the industry is not harmed in that the mandatory labelling requirements must take account of the principle of proportionality and the administrative burden will be shared between food business operators and the responsible authorities, while consumers clearly benefit from having relevant information concerning the entire food chain of the product they will eat.
in writing. from april this year, the indication of the country of origin will be mandatory for unprocessed meat from pigs, goats, sheep and poultry, and has been mandatory since the bse crisis for both processed and unprocessed beef. the resolution proposes making it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed foods. we have supported this resolution, although we have some doubts about the practical implementation of the measure. we reserve a final position for the time when the legislative proposals in question are examined.
the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) represents a global partnership, unique in the world, which has been developing at both institutional and substantive level and now covers areas such as aid, economic cooperation, human rights, trade relations between the eu and the six acp regions and political dialogue. i welcome, once again, the ability of the ppp in its recent sessions to be a forum for genuine political dialogue, beyond its merely administrative issues, on pressing issues such as the future of acp relations, the ebola phenomenon, human rights, etc. in the post-cotonou debate it will be vital to articulate work with eu development policies, the work of national parliaments, local non-state bodies and regional strategy papers. i support mr goerens' report for drawing attention to these and other challenges which are vital to any serious partnership on development, while also expressing some concern about the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in several acp countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, supporting the strategic importance of an open dialogue between the acp countries and the eu, to which the joint parliamentary assembly contributes. app is a platform for political dialogue which by its nature aims at poverty reduction, respect for fundamental human rights and the achievement of the millennium development goals. the union has important instruments of development cooperation at its disposal and the involvement of the acp in the discussion on sustainable economic and social development by the acp countries is therefore appropriate.
in writing. the app today represents a forum for frank and open debate on key issues in development cooperation, making a significant contribution to the partnership on an equal footing between the acp countries and the eu, where poverty reduction and, in the long term, its eradication is the central objective. the acp-eu partnership agreement continues to provide a framework for an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament and members of the acp countries. however, there is a need to strengthen political dialogue in order to avoid a deterioration in the political and humanitarian situation in a number of acp countries and regions. a situation which may have domestic and external repercussions which must be prevented at all costs.
in writing. the report covers the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) over the past year. the rapporteur, mr glinne, has made a number of positive comments on the need for cooperation and the involvement of the acp countries and on the importance of the role of the acp, criticising the council and some member states for undervaluing it. acp-eu cooperation is underpinned by the existence of joint institutions. this assembly has proved to be a very rich forum for cooperation, mutual knowledge and exchange of experience. a space where the contradictions that result from the uneven development of capitalism, the deep asymmetries and inequalities that run through the world today, are very evident. but we also have criticisms of this report. in particular, the defence and legitimization of the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas), which are nothing more than blackmailed free trade agreements imposed on the acp countries, are deeply damaging to their interests and inseparable from the indisputable objectives of economic re-colonization of these countries by the european powers. a totally different agenda is needed, one that promotes effective cooperation, solidarity and the autonomous and sovereign development of these countries. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the work of this assembly has been very important for the development of relations between the eu and the acp countries. there has been a frank and open debate on key issues in development cooperation, thus contributing significantly to an equal partnership between the acp countries and the eu. i am sure that the objectives which underlie this work, namely the reduction of poverty and, in the long term, its eradication, will be achieved in due course. this cooperation should also contribute to sustainable economic development, which is the basis for lasting peace and security, and to political and democratic stability in the acp countries.
in writing. in 2000, a partnership agreement was established between the african, caribbean and pacific states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other, signed in cotonou. in 2013, the second partnership agreement was concluded between the two regions and last year an instrument for financing development cooperation for the period 2014-2020 entered into force. i would like to give my public support to the acp-eu partnership which has an unparalleled status as the only multilateral interparliamentary assembly established under an international agreement to represent a forum for frank and open debate on issues central to development cooperation and to contribute decisively to poverty reduction and, in the long term, to its eradication. i believe that it is essential to continue to support the interparliamentary assemblies, but new development objectives must be defined to increase the competitiveness of the acp countries and improve the quality of life of the people.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly met four times between 2012 and 2013 in horsens (denmark), paramaribo (suriname), brussels and addis ababa (ethiopia). in 2012, nine resolutions and one declaration were adopted and in 2013 nine resolutions were adopted. the three standing committees met four times: in conjunction with the four sessions and twice in brussels between sessions. i welcome the fact that the acp, as one of the joint institutions of the cotonou agreement, continues to be a space for open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament and parliamentarians from the acp countries on the implementation of that agreement, including the examination of development cooperation under the european development fund and the conclusion and implementation of economic partnership agreements. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the acp-eu partnership agreement is a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation and that it is important to highlight its role in upholding the principles of good governance.
in writing. the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has proved to be an asset, as it provides a forum for open debate on issues central to the two sides' mutual development cooperation. this work should be further strengthened and supported, as the objectives set out prove to be of added value. however, it is important to continue to strengthen the political dialogue and to emphasise the role of the party parliamentary assembly in promoting and defending the pre-established objectives.
in writing. as vice-president of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa), i would first of all like to congratulate the deve committee and in particular the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs of this motion for a resolution on the excellent document they have produced, which i voted in favour of. i would stress at the outset its relevance and the fact that it is not excessively long. but also its comprehensiveness and forward-looking analysis, complemented by an extremely well-executed framework and a level of detail that allows a fairly accurate understanding of the work of the acp-eu partnership under the cotonou agreements. i would like to make two comments on this partnership and its future: firstly, to stress the importance of the parliamentary dimension in acp-eu cooperation. the results achieved by parliamentary diplomacy, as well as the concept itself, must be demonstrated and valued. we must therefore strengthen this aspect, and already by the participation of the acp in the current debate on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. and finally, strive for an ever greater involvement in the work of the app of civil society and the services of public administration that are closest to the people, in particular regional governments and municipalities.
in writing. the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) met four times in 2012 and 2013. the 23rd session of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly adopted three resolutions drawn up by the standing committees, the 24th adopted three resolutions drawn up by the standing committees. the 25th session of the jpa was held in brussels (belgium) because ireland, as the rotating presidency of the council of the eu, declined to host it in ireland, and the 26th session of the joint parliamentary assembly was held in addis ababa (ethiopia). we welcome the rapporteur's positive assessment, which underlines the quality of his work and the fact that he has succeeded in establishing himself as a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, of which i am a member, because i was impressed by its content, which highlights the role played by this assembly in the framework of an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue, and because i consider it essential that we continue to promote political debate on human rights, cooperation and development, public health, among other issues, which are an added value for the deepening of acp-eu relations.
the report covers the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) over the past year. the rapporteur, mr glinne, has made a number of positive comments on the need for cooperation and the involvement of the acp countries and on the importance of the role of the acp, criticising the council and some member states for undervaluing it. this house has proved to be a very rich forum for cooperation, mutual knowledge and the exchange of experience. a space where the contradictions that result from the uneven development of capitalism, the deep asymmetries and inequalities that run through the world today, are very evident. but we also have criticisms of this report. in particular, the defence and legitimization of the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas), which are nothing more than blackmailed free trade agreements imposed on the acp countries, are deeply damaging to their interests and inseparable from the indisputable objectives of economic re-colonization of these countries by the european powers.
madam president, it is quite true that the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria has been dramatically aggravated by the self-proclaimed islamic army and islamic state. but it's also true that it didn't start today or yesterday. it is true that it is closely linked to a completely disastrous foreign policy, often conducted by the european union and its member states. and it's true that it's linked to the invasion of iraq and it's true that it's linked to the funding of opposition groups in syria, totally devaluing their fundamentalist character. and that's why the future has an ancient heart. because to do well in the future, we have to learn from past mistakes. and we need to do a lot better. we need to stop funding terrorist activities, particularly through offshore. why is there an off-shore taboo? we must prevent european countries from buying oil in the territories occupied by the islamic state. we need to stop the arms trade. we need a european refugee policy. we need all of this and also, yes, obviously, humanitarian aid. but if we do not go to the bottom, we will continue to make statements and these debates a thousand times, and each time the situation will be worse.
with three other members of this parliament, i travelled from erbil to dohuk in northern iraq in january, speaking to officials, members of the christian and yazidi communities and others on the run, refugees from syria, visiting camps for internally displaced persons, speaking to many victims of daesh terrorism. i have been very critical of the insufficient and misguided support which the european union is giving in the vital fight against the common enemy. the front line of the fight against terrorism, which was brutally attacking paris during our visit, passes through iraq and syria. the european union must build and coordinate an effective strategy to support the eradication of the islamic state. it must coordinate the military support provided by some member states and strengthen support for the peshmerga fighting terrorist forces in iraqi kurdistan and syria. he has to exert his political influence with regional powers to prevent them from channelling funding, weapons and logistical support to daesh. the initiative for such coordination must come from the high representative, exercising her powers in the framework of the common security and defence policy. as much as some member states may be wrong, they must be confronted with their responsibilities. only by confronting daesh in iraq and syria can we actually preserve our security. it is there that radicalisation on european soil is being fed. we shall have more terrorist attacks in europe and beyond against european citizens and interests. we must also do more and better in the humanitarian field to support the people. in member states that, for example, give selective visas to christians, they had better invest in humanitarian and development support so that christians, yazidis and other minorities not only have the schools that are missing in the refugee camps but also feel that they have a future in iraq. for them, for the people and their millenary pre-islamic cultures, as chaldean and assyrian priests have told us. they would also do better to help free the young women and children trafficked and enslaved by terrorists and to take in those who have escaped and who need treatment. this urgently requires a european union representation in erbil. we also need a coherent strategy of internal policies which do not continue to fund and promote the radicalisation of young people, the more than 3 000 young europeans who are spreading terror against the population in iraq and syria today and who are also already operating near our borders in libya.
madam president, it is not by making great moral proclamations or by making them alone, nor by exercising historical accountability, that we will contribute to the solution of this very serious problem we are facing. let us not delude ourselves, this is one of the most serious questions facing the international system today. we have a very serious humanitarian crisis and i would like to welcome the efforts being made by the commission to deal with this very crisis, because it is an absolute priority. but we are faced with a serious political issue which must be looked at in all its complexity. we are facing a region which is going through a process of profound disruption, and it cannot be assessed in a simplistic way. there are problems that have their origins in the islamic world. there are problems that have resulted from some outside intervention over a long period of time. not just the most recent ones, but over many decades. and the european union has this obligation, because this is a region close to the conflict zone, it has this obligation to look at this problem and try to solve it, taking into account all its complexity and betting above all on the political dimension in solving the problem.
we do not recognize the moral and political authority of the european union to judge or evaluate democracy in any sovereign state. this european union, which criticizes countries such as venezuela or cuba and which funds so-called democratic ngos in these countries, is the same one which, at home, throws thousands of human beings into poverty and encourages policies of concentration of wealth. it is the same european union which does not even respect the referendums held in its territory, which everyone will remember. let 's be clear: the european union believes that a country is only democratic when it is subject to the markets and the big economic groups that run europe. this is indeed the true criterion. we therefore advocate that the peoples themselves should determine their own future, without hypocritical manoeuvres of interference, determined by economic and geostrategic reasons and revealing, almost always, a complete disregard for the people.
as several colleagues have already mentioned, more than 300 people have died trying to reach our shores. twenty-nine more died yesterday. i have said it many times in this chamber: saving lives must be a priority! it is clear that we must discuss long-term policies and clearly tackle the roots of this phenomenon: by cooperating with third countries, by creating legal migration corridors, by making every effort so that people do not have to put their lives at risk to flee their countries. it is crucial that the european union acts quickly and tackles the root causes of the problem, but this reality is not changed by decree, it takes time. and yet, the migratory pressure does not seem to be diminishing, judging from the information released by frontex. in october i asked the european commission for more information on the means and scope of operation triton, warning that it could put thousands of lives at risk. the answer was confidential. for today's tragedy has made it clear that the means are manifestly not enough. today it has become clear that the solidarity which underlies this union is not always put into practice. and that is why, madam president, with a sense of urgency and firmness, i call on the european commission and, above all, on the council to exercise their powers.
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i agree with you completely. turkey is a candidate country for membership of the european union. in the area of neighbourhood policy, we have instruments, tools, to invite them to cooperate more effectively with us.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, mrs kalniņa, last monday 29 migrants died of hypothermia because, after being rescued by the italian coastguard off libya, they spent 18 hours in the cold because there were no patrol boats able to protect them below deck, as mrs kalniņa says. these people were not criminals but human beings in need of protection and assistance. the european union urgently and collectively needs to ensure a strong capacity to carry out search, rescue and disembarkation operations for migrants, as well as support for countries with the most pressured asylum and reception systems. it is therefore urgent that the member states increase their financial contributions to frontex in order to strengthen its resources, expand its powers and areas of action. it is also important that the council should strengthen cooperation between member states on external border controls, on the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin, and that those who are returned should not be subjected to abuse by border and coast guard officers or to collective expulsions to countries where their fundamental rights are not respected.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr stylianides, mrs kalniņa, member states are going through difficult times in terms of the sustainability of their national health systems, and an increasingly important part of the budgets devoted to health concerns pharmaceutical expenditure. states have tried to counteract this trend with measures to control prescriptions and with measures concerning price fixing and reimbursement. however, there is less transparency in cost-setting and reimbursement measures and there are huge delays in decision-making deadlines, not only for innovative medicines but also for generic medicines. at the same time, we are seeing very serious cases like hepatitis c, where many patients are being denied life-saving medicines. there seems to be an unbridled greed of the pharmaceutical companies, who set exorbitant prices for their innovative medicines, making a real bloodletting of health systems. these situations have nothing to do with obtaining a fair return on the investments and risks incurred during the research and development processes, which are often co-financed by public funds. greater collaboration at european level is needed to gain more bargaining power with industry and to ensure that patients have rapid access to medicines. we're dealing with human lives here. in this respect, how can we understand that a legislative proposal such as that amending the transparency directive, which regulates the rules for the pricing of pharmaceutical products for human use, of which i am the rapporteur, and which aims to shorten the time limits for decisions on the reimbursement of the cost of innovative and generic medicines, is blocked in the council? how is it possible that the commission, despite pressure from the european parliament, is considering withdrawing from the work programme? it's a pity mr timmermans isn't here, because i had a question to ask you. why does he not reply to my letters to him on this subject, to which i have asked for the commission's cooperation in this matter? i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that in cases like this, europeans need more europe, not less europe.
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, people have also died in my country, portugal, because the national health service did not have the financial resources and the government did not take the exceptional measures to ensure that the essential innovative medicines, particularly for hepatitis c, were administered. there was a social alarm, many initiatives, including this agenda, and only then was it possible to establish an agreement for the most urgent treatments. we are therefore faced with a market failure, commissioner. in fact, life is priceless, but the fact that life is priceless cannot allow suppliers an unjustified competitive advantage in forming a fair price for access to new medicines. the abolition of the death penalty was a great achievement of modernity, but in a disguised way it is returning to the european union through a financial guillotine. it is therefore very important that we promote a dynamic process of cooperation which gives the union the strength to safeguard the interests of its citizens. we know that health care is not community-based, but subsidiarity must be considered intelligently. there are cases where subsidiarity is exactly cooperation at union level. in this case it is not national policy, but the union that makes the force, that defends the people and that ensures the balance.
mr president, this could be one of those debates which are usually held here on thursdays, on cases of human rights violations. debates in which the majority of this parliament likes to point the finger at other countries. yes, in this case, we are facing a shocking violation of human rights. the european union has also taken steps to ensure that the health of the population is protected. in the european union, in the 21st century, there are governments, like the portuguese government, that decide to put a price on human life, and that come to the conclusion that a medicine that can save the lives of patients, for example, with hepatitis c, is too expensive and that it cannot be, that it will not be provided to these patients. and so these patients die without access to these life-saving medicines. of course, this cannot hide the fact that some medicines are now being sold at outrageous prices, set by the multinational pharmaceutical companies. the same ones to which the european union channels millions of public funds, for example from the research framework programme, instead of channelling those funds to development, research and development of production capacity for medicines in the public sector. the interests of the multinationals must be addressed at once. we cannot count on those who exist to serve these interests to do so, particularly the european commission. but any initiative which will force the multinationals to lower the price of these medicines will of course have our support.
mr president, raïf badawi, a defender of freedom of expression and the separation of church and state, has been sentenced by the riyadh authorities to an inhuman and degrading sentence of 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes. the late king abdullah sent a request for review of this conviction to the supreme court, which in turn referred the case back to the criminal court. the decision on his case was postponed to march 4th, at the same time that his request to leave saudi arabia for bahrain was denied. respect for human rights is one of the key objectives of the european union's common foreign and security policy, and that is why i am reiterating here today the question i put to the vice-president and high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, on 4 february, together with some of my colleagues in the european parliament. and the question was this... what steps do you intend to take to pressure saudi arabia to humanize its penal code?
the purpose of the establishment of this special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, which will consist of 45 members, is not only to examine the application by a member state or the commission of state aid law and union tax law in relation to tax rulings, but also to propose appropriate measures for the proper functioning of the internal market and to verify that aid granted by a state or through state resources is compatible with the internal market and is not being misused. the committee will also analyse and assess the impact of aggressive tax planning by companies established or incorporated in the member states and the exchange of information in this field.
the luxleaks scandal has shocked public opinion and further undermined the credibility of the eu institutions, calling into question the legitimacy of the president of the european commission and his political capacity to promote greater fiscal justice. as more information was released, it was soon understood that this issue covered the vast majority of eu countries, engaging the two great political families of this parliament, the popular and the socialist, with their respective national governments, who were actively involved in this promiscuous relationship between political power and large multinational companies. that is why they have made it impossible to set up a committee of inquiry - which we have been advocating from the outset - and have replaced it with a special committee with much less power. the creation of this special committee, with this mandate, although it falls short of what would be necessary and does not explicitly point to the central role of multinational companies and their relationship with national governments, despite the weight given to state aids, which we disagree with, is an instrument that can help to clarify this parliament and public opinion on tax practices that systematically burden workers and their families and relieve large companies.
in writing. i voted for the committee of inquiry to ensure that tax dumping by large multinationals is investigated. however, the decision of the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, not to put the revised mandate to the vote, while that same mandate is the basis for the special committee, must be denounced. only a commission of inquiry would have the right and access to classified documents of the member states. access to these documents is not covered by the special committee, documents that could prove that political figures such as the president of the european commission, jean claude juncker, are facilitating tax evasion by large multinationals, which cost european citizens almost 1 trillion euros. we will continue to challenge the decision of the president of parliament, martin schulz.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this committee, because i agree with the objectives it sets out.
the european parliament has decided to set up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect to examine the application by a member state or the commission of state aid law and union tax law in relation to tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect taken by member states. i am in favour of the creation of this special committee, but i would like to stress that the importance of this analysis should not be limited to media cases, such as those which have recently emerged, but should rather be extended to a number of european union countries to investigate illegal practices of tax evasion and fraud, as well as state aid which jeopardises or undermines free european competition.
in writing. the commission has decided to investigate, in all member states, the compatibility of the practice of tax rulings with union state aid rules. union tax legislation requires all member states to communicate to the other member states, by means of a spontaneous exchange, all information on tax rulings, in particular whether they may result in a loss of tax revenue in another member state or whether notional profit transfers within business groups may result in a reduction of fees or taxes. this resolution proposes the establishment of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect to examine the application by a member state or the commission of state aid law and union tax law in relation to tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect taken by member states. the commission should assess, in particular, whether state aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is not being misused, and more generally whether the obligations arising from union tax legislation are being complied with, and should issue any recommendations it deems necessary in this regard. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this special committee, as i consider that all member states' practices concerning the application of eu tax and state aid law to tax rulings and other measures of the same nature or effect should be thoroughly investigated, if such practices constitute an act of the member state itself or of the european commission. i hope that this commission can produce comprehensive, rapid and relevant work.
the luxleaks scandal has shocked the european union and shocked public opinion, calling into question the legitimacy of the european commission and its political capacity to promote greater tax justice. as more information was being disseminated, it was soon understood that this issue covers the vast majority of the countries of the european union, engaging the two great political families of this parliament, the popular and the socialist, with their respective national governments where they have been actively involved in this promiscuous relationship between political power and large multinational companies. that is why the socialists and the popular front have backed down, since they have done everything possible to prevent the creation of this committee of inquiry. that is why they have made it impossible to set up a committee of inquiry, replacing it with a special committee with much less power.
in writing. i supported this resolution condemning the shocking violations of human rights in iraq and syria. the current crisis in syria, as a result of the violence of the assad regime and terrorist groups, has triggered a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented scale. the humanitarian situation in iraq, caused by the ongoing conflict and the violence and repression by the terrorist organisation isil/daesh, translates into approximately 5,2 million people in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and more than 2,1 million iraqis who are internally displaced. the deterioration of the humanitarian situation is worrying. given the tremendous complexity and scale of this problem, it is necessary for the eu to adopt a comprehensive strategy to combat isil/daesh and to contribute to uniting global efforts to alleviate the humanitarian crisis and to end the conflict in syria and iraq and its international ramifications.
the current crisis of violence in syria has already killed more than 200,000 people, mostly civilians, caused more than 7.6 million people to be displaced and 12.2 million to become refugees. according to humanitarian organizations on the ground, more than 5.2 million people are in need of aid and there are many unregistered refugees and displaced persons. the terrorist organisation behind these attacks, isil/daesh, has been summarily executing civilians and has launched systematic campaigns of ethnic cleansing in northern iraq and syria, with a particular focus on women and girls. i therefore condemn the shocking, systematic and widespread abuses and violations of human rights in both countries and express my concern at the deterioration of the humanitarian and human rights situation in these two countries.
in writing. we are concerned about the serious political and social situation in syria and iraq. we also condemn all the attacks on the freedoms and fundamental rights of these peoples and the criminal practices of torture and indiscriminate murder and persecution of minorities carried out by groups of fascist ideology and the extreme right such as isis or al-qaeda, as well as the crimes of aggression carried out by the us and its allies in the eu and the dictatorships in the region, under the pretext of fighting them. this situation is inseparable from the old and new processes of aggression and invasion of iraq and interference and destabilisation of syria, as well as from the israeli occupation and aggression, processes which have the complicity and support of the majority of parliament, in defiance of international law and the un charter. this resolution is part of the campaign of lies and hypocrisy by those who have supported the promotion, financing and arming of groups which continue to cause barbarity and destruction, spreading it to various countries in the region. at the heart of this problem is the deepening crisis of capitalism and the race for geostrategic dominance and the energy resources that this region is rich in.
in writing. the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria is of great concern to all and the eu must take serious action to resolve it as soon as possible. the islamic state cannot continue to operate with impunity, savagely taking the lives of innocent people. the eu must join forces with its allies to combat this situation which is threatening stability and peace in the region and leading to the existence of thousands of refugees who are in a situation of genuine humanitarian crisis.
the civil war in syria is five years old this march. a humanitarian catastrophe that has already killed more than 200,000 people, the vast majority of them civilians, and created more than 12.2 million refugees and 7.6 million internally displaced persons. in iraq, one of the countries bordering syria, the conflict and violence perpetrated by the islamic state fighters is intensifying day by day, despite the action of the international coalition, which takes the form of aerial bombardments. two countries which, because of their political and socioeconomic instability, are becoming a favourable location for the advance of the islamic state fighters. the islamic state currently controls part of the syrian state and is seeking to expand its caliphate into iraqi territory. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that only through joint and global action can we stop this movement which is committing heinous crimes. all parties to the war must be held accountable for the crimes committed. i believe that this is the only way to achieve lasting peace in iraq and syria.
the current crisis of violence in syria has triggered a humanitarian catastrophe of a scale unprecedented in history, with over 200 000 killed, mostly civilians, over 7.6 million internally displaced persons and over 12.2 million refugees. on the other hand, the humanitarian situation in iraq continues to deteriorate, with more than 5.2 million people in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and more than 2.1 million internally displaced persons. overall, the humanitarian situation has deteriorated considerably, with systematic abuses and violations of the most basic fundamental rights, and with the parties to the conflict using human suffering as a weapon of war and diverting aid proceeds illicitly, in violation of the geneva conventions. unfortunately, the international community is failing to meet the needs of the syrians and the iraqis. the resolution reiterates that the priority of the eu and the international community must be to alleviate the suffering of millions of syrians and iraqis who lack basic goods and services. it also calls for greater international coordination to help the most deprived populations as effectively as possible. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, of which i am one of the drafters, because we are facing a genuine and unprecedented catastrophe, which has already claimed the lives of over 200 000 000 people, the vast majority of them civilians, displaced over 7 million and created over 12 million refugees, citizens in dire need of assistance on syrian territory. this wave of violence has had repercussions in other countries, which have received thousands of refugees, such as lebanon, turkey, jordan and egypt. the same situation exists in iraq, with more than 5 million people in need of urgent humanitarian aid, in addition to thousands of syrian refugees. the report stresses the need for the eu to adopt a regional strategy to combat terrorist organisations in these territories, combining efforts to alleviate the humanitarian crisis, providing civil, financial and security assistance, and seeking to end the conflict in the two countries. we are facing an unsustainable situation which has destroyed thousands of human lives and which must be vigorously combated not only by the european union but also by the entire international community, always with respect for human rights and for the protection and dignity of the human person.
the case of syria is a paradigmatic example of the kind of external intervention by the so-called western countries, i.e. the eu and the united states and their armed wing, nato. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this way, large areas of the continent are being disorganised by the force of bombs and the financing of extremist terrorist groups, transformed into defenders of democracy and western values. unfortunately, as has happened in the past, the monster has turned against its creator and created a huge humanitarian crisis that has rightly shocked public opinion. this is a fire that must be mobilized by the entire international community, and in particular by the eu, which has a strong responsibility in this process. however, putting out this fire without understanding its origin and without removing the proper leaks will only be another delay until more crimes are committed by the west with the same hypocrisy as always.
in writing. we are concerned about the serious political and social situation currently prevailing in the syrian and iraqi territories. we also condemn all the attacks on the freedoms and fundamental rights of these peoples and the criminal practices of torture and indiscriminate murder and persecution of minorities carried out by groups of fascist ideology and the extreme right such as isis or al-qaeda, as well as the crimes resulting from the aggression that the us and its eu allies and the dictatorships in the region carry out in the name of their fight. this situation is inseparable from the old and new processes of aggression and invasion of iraq and interference and destabilisation of syria, as well as from the israeli occupation and aggression, processes which have the complicity and support of the majority of the ep against international law and the un charter. the resolution is part of the campaign of lies and hypocrisy by those who, like the majority of the ep, have supported the promotion, funding and arming of groups which continue to cause barbarism and destruction, spreading it to several countries in the region. at the heart of this problem is the deepening crisis of capitalism and the race for geostrategic dominance and the energy resources that this region is rich in.
energy policy is of undeniable importance, not only for europe's competitiveness but also for its cohesion. it is about more savings, more security of supply, lower costs for businesses and citizens, more growth and jobs. i am pleased that the european commission is attaching great importance to this sector. the single energy market is a concept that has been with us for a long time, but it is taking time to become a reality. i hope that this initiative of the commission will reflect a different approach, with a greater focus on implementation and also on the greater effectiveness of the proposed instruments. it is essential to achieve tangible results, particularly in those regions which are isolated from the energy point of view, because of the obstacles to the open market and the lack of infrastructure, where national advantages override european interests, as is the case with the interconnections of the iberian peninsula which france insists on blocking, isolating it from the rest of europe. i hope that the intentions that have brought us here, of a true energy union, are not just empty words or, as my colleague bas eickhout, who has now left, would say, more blah, blah, blah. i hope that this time the commission has had a renewed ambition and recognises that past policies, policies without claws, would be nothing more than an empty declaration of intent. europeans do not want another failure.
- thank you. the energy union package presented today is a very positive step towards making the energy transition one of the engines of sustainable growth in europe. for the iberian peninsula in particular, it creates the conditions to end our electrical isolation and at the same time to take advantage of the great investment we have made in renewable energy. it also creates the opportunity to constitute an alternative energy hub which is very important for security of supply in the european context. we have a good policy, now we have to remove the barriers to it being implemented. of course, we must secure competitive investment. in the case of portugal, when investment outside the investment fund is required, the flexibility clause must be applied and this does not count towards the fiscal deficit. the legislative package on the iberian market must also be such that it does not allow any distortion of the free market to protect countries or technologies already in place, and monitoring must have the tools to be able to act immediately. but we have good news and big challenges ahead. it's worth facing them with strength and determination.
i would also like to congratulate you on this, which i consider to be one of the truly legislative dossiers. i would stress that in a european union which should be solidary, there are companies which do not access energy at the same rate, it is not the same thing to be an entrepreneur in portugal or romania, or in france or germany, and i must say that for those who say that the european union should be made with russia (i have heard this before), i am surprised that they insist on greater dependence on russia and not on less dependence on the european union. i can't even make out the point. i want the energy autonomy of the european union and i just want to end on a note that is relevant to my country, and to the iberian peninsula, and how it can help europe not to be so dependent on russia: the iberian peninsula has seven, or eight, of the 12 european liquefied gas terminals and is in a position to replace 50% of european imports from russia, i repeat, 50% of european imports from russia if, of course, the networks are strengthened. and that is where the interconnections come in. it is up to the european commission, and i am sure that the commissioner will be up to the task.
the interim agreement on greece is welcome, but it is not the end of the process. it's just the beginning of a new phase, and this phase has to be different. greece is strangled by austerity policies which have proved excessive. its impact on the economy, on employment, on society and on confidence has been devastating, as you have wisely acknowledged, mr juncker. thank you for that. it is obvious that there are reforms to be made in greece and paths to be corrected, but only with time, gradualism and budgetary space can they succeed. today, there is no doubt that alternatives to the absurd thesis of creative austerity exist, and it is on these alternatives that the new agenda must be built. the temptation to use the present moment to draw moral lessons or to make demonstrations of power is profoundly dangerous, not only for the greek people but for the survival of the european project. the only collective lesson to be learned is that agendas must be adjusted according to results and not the strength of the interests that support them.
i would naturally like to congratulate the president of the council and the president of the commission and particularly welcome the results, more in the sense of the impetus they have given, in the sense of the dynamism they have given after this informal council. firstly, in the case of terrorism, where i think very great progress has been made, while at the same time safeguarding, say, the legacy of schengen, which is absolutely fundamental, and of freedom of movement. secondly, the question of ukraine, where i believe that, despite everything, there are still many uncertainties and much remains to be done, and thirdly, of course, the question of economic and monetary union, which is very much marked by the question of greece. and what i wanted to make clear is this: we think this is a good agreement and it is a reasonable agreement, and it is a reasonable agreement because the greek government has realised that it is fundamental, so that there is solidarity and openness and so that they can overcome their problems, that it is on an equal footing with the other countries and that it is part of the eurozone rules. and the fact that i have realised this and that this is a path which is still, let us say, in the process of being completed, because we still need, finally, more guarantees over the next two or three months, but it is a process which has begun, i think is a sign of great hope for the whole euro zone and, therefore, in this sense, i would like to say that i think that, despite everything, the council has opened the way to this solution and that this solution leaves us with some hope.
in writing. as we know, there is a situation in ukraine at the moment which is the result of an illegitimate coup d'état supported by the united states, nato and the european union. the current illegitimate government is backed by self-styled fascist parties who hold key portfolios such as internal security. this government is responsible for repressive actions that undermine democracy and human rights. at the moment, a court action is under way to outlaw the communist party of ukraine. this is intolerable. the lawyer defending the communist party in this case was in parliament today at a meeting of our group, where he witnessed a series of outrages which should have been reported but which unfortunately did not reach the mainstream media. i ask the european commission and the council what their assessment of this situation is.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the ecb was created with a specific mandate, in a logic based on a supposed technical neutrality above any political scrutiny. it is true that the ecb has intervened in the face of objective reality, namely the prolongation of the recession and the ineffectiveness of its policies, and has clearly exceeded its mandate. after cutting rates to minimum levels, and in the absence of tangible results, the ecb switched from being the liquidity provider of the system to being a long-term lender with increasing maturities of three and four years. directly or indirectly, it has directed the policies of several sovereign states. it started buying abss, i.e. products based on securitised private debt that were at the root of the current financial crisis. finally, the ecb is taking over banking supervision this year, thus concentrating an immeasurable set of powers without the corresponding counterparts in the area of democratic legitimacy. we are, of course, at the opposite end of this model, which in practice puts the sovereign states at the service of finance and banking and subjects them to the dictatorship of the markets. i have a few questions. recently, the rating agency standard and poor's was ordered to pay a multi-billion euro fine for misleading investors about the quality of mortgages. the ratings of this agency are an integral part of the eurosystem credit assessment framework, i ask what assessment is made of this situation? secondly, according to the opinion of the advocate general of the court of justice of the european union, the ecb's purchase of sovereign debt on the secondary market is incompatible with its presence on the teams negotiating the adjustment programmes which are imposed on the beneficiary countries, i.e. the troika.
i think that if there were any doubts about the lack of respect of the ecb and mr draghi for democracy and democratic control of this house, they are undone, because we are here, we have things to say to mr draghi and about the activities of 2013, and mr draghi has things to say to us, but he simply refuses to listen to us and that is really unfortunate because it is said that there is democratic control of the ecb and it is justified with the european parliament. for, even in the european parliament, mr draghi does not listen to the members and it would be good if he did, because 2013 was indeed an excellent year to show the failure of the ecb's expansionary monetary policy. investment not only did not increase, but fell by 2% in the euro area and, for example, in portugal, by 14%. the ecb could well argue that monetary policy was sabotaged by recessionary fiscal policies, but the problem is that the ecb was an active part of the imposition of these recessionary policies, violating the limits of its mandate. and what was the result? the result was that between 2009 and 2014, investment fell by 16.3% in the euro area and, despite all this, the ecb continues to impose austerity, as we have seen, moreover, now in the negotiations in greece, both before the elections and after the elections, with unacceptable, arbitrary and illegal blackmail maneuvers. so the ecb continues to extend its mandate, the ecb is everywhere, it is just not where democracy is exercised, as is the case in this plenary.
on behalf of the s&d group. once again, we are hearing very worrying news from venezuela, where the political crisis has sharpened dramatically in recent days. we are deeply saddened by the death of a 14-year-old boy in the city of san cristobal on tuesday, in circumstances which are not yet fully understood, but which appear to have been caused by a police officer who was shot while in custody. the extreme antagonisms between the government and the opposition point dangerously to a point of no return. we, as members of the european parliament, must try to make a calm and constructive assessment of this situation which is distressing to the venezuelans and is a source of dangerous instability in latin america. we must begin by calling on both sides to respect scrupulously the venezuelan constitutional order. that the democratically elected government maintain the electoral calendar and that legislative elections be called, as planned, by the end of this year and that the opposition continue to defend its alternative project, within the framework of constitutionality and in full respect of democratic rules. we know how complex the situation is in venezuela. we recall that following the demonstrations of february 2013, which resulted in 43 deaths, talks were initiated between the government and the opposition and that it was the opposition, with significant internal tensions between a moderate faction and a more radical faction, that decided to abandon the talks on that occasion. but at this moment we must strongly condemn the methods of political combat used by the venezuelan government, which are contrary to the good rules of democratic coexistence and respect for the right to opposition and ideological dissent. these methods have constituted serious violations of the legality of human rights and have been widely condemned by the un, human rights watch and, more recently, the inter-american commission on human rights. venezuela has obligations in this area, even as a member of mercosur, which it cannot fail to respect. we must also deplore the excesses committed by the security forces in the repression of the demonstrators. although several police and military officers are under investigation as a result, the fact is that the government passed a resolution on january 28 that allows the army to use firearms to suppress demonstrations. we also have to condemn the arrests of opposition leaders or figures on the basis of suspicion of preparing a coup d'état against the government of president maduro: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the new constitution, which is to be signed by the president of the republic, mr giscard d'estaing, and by the president of the european parliament, mr delors. the reading of this document does not allow for this kind of conclusion because it also does not help anything to be constantly feeding and propagating conspiracy theories, always based on a background narrative of an alleged imperialist interference of the united states. that does nothing to solve the problem. the situation is serious and, in order to resolve it, in addition to the contribution of the whole of venezuelan society and all the political actors, the participation of unasul, the organization of american states and mercosur is important, but the participation of the european union and this parliament in particular is also very important, and that is why my final appeal here is precisely that the european parliament should not shirk its responsibilities, finding the most appropriate ways, with the greatest possible consensus, to contribute to the resolution of such a serious problem affecting a country which is particularly friendly to europeans, such as venezuela.
we are also very concerned about what is happening in venezuela. in fact, on 11 and 12 february a coup d'état plan was dismantled in venezuela, the modus operandi of which reminds us of countries like chile in the 1970s. what would be operation jericho included destabilization on the street with assassinations provoked to create chaos, the use of the tucano warplane, which would come from abroad because the venezuelans do not have them operational, the use of a video that was recorded with supposed military hooded that would give news of the military rebellion, through, of course, channels like cnn. the assassination of the president and the attack on government headquarters were also planned, as well as, strategically, the telesur television network, since the others did not need to be attacked because they would broadcast what the coup plotters understood. everything so articulated with the united states government that joe biden himself went around saying that the government of venezuela was not going to last much longer. in the face of this, those involved are being arrested, they are being investigated for alleged crimes against national security and the democratic system of the country. you think the european union has the right to guarantee its security, but the venezuelans no longer have the right. why?
the destruction of the middle classes has brutal consequences for the balance of societies and political regimes. the political and humanitarian crisis in venezuela leaves little room for great considerations, but this should be a lesson to be learned in today's world. the social fracture in venezuela is of extreme gravity. the rights, freedoms and guarantees have been unacceptably compromised. strong diplomatic action by the international community is increasingly needed. venezuela has a constitution. the coming to power of the current bolivarian regime, although with some criticism and suspicion regarding transparency, was through democratic elections. in a time of crisis, everything must be done to ensure that the solution is also democratic and that the venezuelan constitution is respected. no solution outside this framework should be accepted by the european union or the international community. on both sides, in a fractured society, totalitarian impulses are felt. these impulses must be fought with equal vigor, wherever they come from. the economic crisis, in particular the collapse of the oil price and the international markets, has greatly aggravated the political crisis, and the political situation is also aggravated by the economic crisis and gives it a humanitarian dimension. our role as members of the european parliament is not to start fires but to put them out, and the best way to do that is to demand firmly that the principles of the rule of law be respected in venezuela and that legitimate pressure be put to ensure that the rules of the rule of law are respected by all parties to the conflict. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. in fact, as recently as this year, i was on a mission with an international delegation in latin america. we feel every day that the democratic model, the rule of law model of the european union, is a reference model for these peoples. we should not impose our model, but we should offer it as a reference model. we must not have a passive attitude but an active attitude.
the murder of yet another young protester and the violent detention, without a warrant, in violation of the constitution, of antonio ledezma, twice elected mayor of caracas, are worrying developments that will only radicalize tensions among the venezuelan people, already exasperated by the shortage of essential goods, corruption, precariousness, systematic disregard for freedom of expression and other basic human rights. it is not enough to hold elections and have a majority to live in a democracy, we must respect the opposition, respect the rule of law. we therefore demand the immediate release of antonio ledezma, leopoldo lópez, other jailed oppositionists and students and call on president maduro to no longer bury venezuela in a spiral of conspiracy and repression, but rather explore the path of peaceful and inclusive national dialogue proposed in the appeal to venezuelans for a national transition agreement that has broad support in society. this parliament should, as soon as possible, send a mission to venezuela to contact the main political actors in the government, the opposition, civil society and to encourage a democratic solution that maintains the electoral calendar.
in recent weeks, when talking about the negotiations with the new greek government, i have heard several european and national leaders say that the proof that the adjustment programmes are working is the success of portugal. this is certainly a case of collective hallucination. during the adjustment years, portuguese gdp fell by 5%, investment fell by 63%, 350,000 jobs were destroyed, in addition to those that the government disguised, and the only things that really increased were public debt, 33 percent of gdp in the adjustment years, unemployment and poverty, so to speak of portugal as a success story is at least clearly exaggerated. if it was a hit, we wouldn't have the news we have today. the european commission believes so much in this conversation that it has just put portugal under close surveillance for excessive imbalances. portugal is, sadly, a case in point that proves the failure of austerity policies.
the tarabella report makes a good diagnosis of the setbacks that women's rights have had in recent years, although we do not agree on some issues, such as trying to make the european semester meet social objectives, which in our opinion is trying to mix water with olive oil. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules. it was the guidelines of the european commission and the policy of several governments that ordered the destruction of various social functions of the state, that ordered the reduction of wages, pushing women into poverty, into exploitation and, in dramatic cases, into prostitution. yes, working hours are more irregular and more intensive today, but these were only guidelines from the european commission. the same european commission which, while saying that it is very much in favour of women's rights, has no problem putting the revision of the maternity directive, an essential instrument for achieving greater equality between men and women, on the refit list. we need to be clear if we are to be consistent, and that is why we are asking you to adopt the amendments we have proposed to this report tomorrow.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it will take us 30 years to reach the target of 75% of women in employment. it will take 70 years for equal pay to become a reality, more than 20 years to achieve parity in national parliaments and on the boards of europe's largest companies, and almost 40 years to ensure that work at home is equally shared. even here in the european parliament, where we are debating and making these decisions, only one third of its members are women. effective measures must be taken to put an end to this reality. quotas must be introduced so that companies are obliged to hire a number of women commensurate with reality. we must combat the stereotypes that prevail in many institutions, notably the catholic church, where women cannot enter the priesthood. so i am hereby calling on pope francis to take a public stand on this. the catholic religion cannot be a male religion, a sexist religion. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, i will answer you with a question: do you think women are inferior to men to be in the position they are in in the top positions of companies? do you think that men are there just because they are better than women or because behind this is a culture of centuries and millennia that unduly subordinates women and does not recognize their role as human beings in the fullness of their dignity as human beings? that is the reality, which we have to change and which we have to fight, of course we have to look for the best but at the moment that is not the prevailing rule. right now, it's men who dominate, just because they're men, and women don't have access, just because they're women.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, several speakers have already mentioned that yesterday we celebrated international women's day. the world doesn't just celebrate women on march 8. as human beings, we all have the same rights and duties, equal before the law, all must be respected in our dignity, every day, every moment, under any circumstances. so on 8 march, we remember - yes - the great work that unfortunately still lies ahead. we recall the inequalities that still persist in the workplace and in access to education; we recall the struggle for survival of the working poor in the european union, 80% of whom are women. we remember the suffering still being inflicted by genital mutilation and domestic violence; we remember the girls and women who are victims of trafficking and pimping. we are reminded of the ideologies and obediences that degrade women and subordinate them to men. the fight for equal rights and opportunities for men and women must therefore be a cause that unites us all. in order to act, it is essential that we have an impartial knowledge of the reality around us. this is the function of this report: to assess what was done or not done in 2013 in the european union. despite some developments, 2013 proved to be another year of weak improvements. there are still many challenges ahead and this house must make every effort to ensure that all the instruments already adopted are actually implemented. i am fully aware that much depends on the member states and, even more so, on a real capacity to change mindsets. however, i am sure that we will not fail to do our part, which begins with uniting around the idea that men and women should, in fact, have the same rights and opportunities. mr president, i congratulate mr tarabella on his report. fundamental rights are one of the most visible aspects of our work. we have here a good document to guide our action. it is time to get down to business and tomorrow we must clearly approve the tarabella report.
i thank mr tarabella for the final document he has presented to us, but i would like to reflect and point out that while in europe we are discussing - and rightly so - gender equality, the problem of training women who have no return in terms of employment because of their lack of access to the labour market and equal pay, while we are discussing this problem, we have, for example, a european commission that is not exemplary in terms of parity. and a parliament, this one, with a third of women. a europe that pretends to be liberal in regard to gay rights, that excuses itself or always has excused itself, to discuss my right to decide about my body. a europe that shrinks in the face of openness to the issue of, for example, transgender people. that he can't find effective ways to combat domestic violence. but in the meantime, i would like to remind you that another member has already spoken about trafficking in women. trafficking women for being women. it's the trafficking of poverty. it is tragic! and the greatest tragedy is to know that we in europe have business, more or less, with these countries.
madam president, it is worth recalling here that it was in the name of the sacred principle of free competition that liberalizations and privatizations of strategic sectors of the economy and the advance of the market on growing spheres of social life were justified. everyone would win, they told us. it's seeing the results. in the electricity sector, liberalisation and the end of the vertical integration of production and distribution in public undertakings have led to higher energy bills for firms and households, as well as higher profits for the monopolies - formerly public, now private - holding these undertakings. in transport, liberalization has led to a concentration of european-wide monopolies in less than half a dozen large multinational companies, which dominate both passenger and freight transport. these are just two examples. this is not, and should not be, in this report. at the same time, they continue to ignore serious distortions of competition, for example in agriculture, which are mainly the result of the current common agricultural policy, which is destroying national production. in the end, the objective and practical results of this competition policy are to make it difficult for states to intervene and to benefit large transnational groups.
mr president, the question of endocrine disruptors has been discussed here for a long time and the european commission has been asked for a long time to take concrete measures to protect public health from the harmful effects of these substances. a necessary step in creating legislation against the use of these substances, used in everyday products, is the adoption of criteria for their recognition. this would be a necessary step, which should have been taken by 2013, but which the european commission has so far refused to take, relying on little or no convincing explanations, as was clearly shown today, once again. what seems to be really at stake here is that other values are rising up and overriding what should prevail: the public interest, the precautionary principle. this cannot be separated from the ongoing negotiations with the united states on ttip, the free trade agreement, although the commission's interests are weighing in the opposite direction. we know that in the united states the precautionary principle is worthless, and what this treaty is really about is to level the playing field in all areas, to put business before public health.
mr president, the european road haulage operators affected by the sanctions imposed by the european union on russia, and who have had similar actions taken in response, are also part of what we might call the collateral damage of the european union's position. an unacceptable position of confrontation, of incitement, of deepening the conflict. a position which, in the name of unacknowledged political, economic and geostrategic interests, in the name of these unacknowledged interests, has destabilised ukraine, has promoted the rise to power of forces of an avowedly nazi-fascist character, supported and financed by the united states, the european union, who now expect them to satisfy their interests. in this process, european transport operators, like agricultural producers, like aquaculture and fisheries companies, are the collateral damage of a strategy that sacrifices them to these other interests. the european commission cannot therefore wash its hands of this, as it has done here today. you have direct responsibility for these losses. it cannot simply pass on the costs to the member states with any compensation. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. dear mr. cramer, i'm going to answer by returning another question. it's just that you see part of the story, you don't see the whole story. and so i'm going to ask you this question again. do you remember, mr cramer, the statements made by the us secretary of state, mrs nuland? do you remember? the european union and the financing of the nazi-fascist forces that came to power in ukraine, which remind us of the darkest pages of european history? it is these forces which came to power through a coup that are now in ukraine with the support of the european union and the united states.
the russian embargo on our international road transport operators has had a colossal impact on the sector, but also on the export of fruit, vegetables and fresh meat, particularly from peripheral countries such as portugal. road hauliers cannot pay for foreign policy actions. i therefore think it is important for the european commission to work with the russian authorities and to implement the existing trade agreements. since it has this power, the commission must ensure that international road transport is carried out without obstacles and discrimination inside and outside the union.
in writing. we are suffering the collateral damage resulting from the unacceptable position of confrontation, incitement and deepening of the conflict by the eu, which destabilised ukraine and paved the way for the rise to power of forces of a purely nazi-fascist character. these forces, supported and financed by the united states and the european union, now expect them to satisfy their own superior interests. in this process, european transport operators, like agricultural producers, fisheries and aquaculture companies, among others, are the collateral damage of a strategy which sacrifices them to these other interests. the european commission cannot therefore wash its hands of this, as it did here today. it has direct responsibility for these losses and must assume these responsibilities by changing policy and compensating for the extensive losses.
mr president, we are discussing here today a key issue, namely european investment in the long term. it is a fundamental question, but we have not touched on it because we continue to rely on the dogmatic model which has brought us to the situation we are in. there are two fundamental tenets to this proposal. the first dogma is that the cmu has to play a greater role in channelling finance into the real economy. and i ask you: do we really need to multiply and expand the casino model, which was ultimately the one that led us to the adjustment programs during the crisis years? do we really need to multiply this model, or do we need to, on the contrary, work this model and reverse it completely? the second dogma is that we need to create new investment vehicles, which says that if there are no new investment vehicles, there is no way to finance small and mediumsized enterprises and other organizations. they even say that without capital markets there is no alternative to financing small and mediumsized enterprises. and i ask you, is there not? so what happens to the traditional relationship between banking and economics? what happens to public investment? why do we only multiply the instruments that aggravate the systemic risk of the european economy? and yet the fundamental problem is not worked out. and you can keep trying to inject trillions of euros into the european economy, and until you solve the fundamental problem, which is the demand problem, you solve nothing. that is the fundamental problem: demand. what we need is to increase aggregate demand. ending austerity is the fundamental problem.
mr president, we have a serious problem in the european union which stems from the expectations of economic operators, who do not see any prospects for growth at the level of the european union. we can talk about innovation, we can talk about smart growth, we can use all the rhetoric we want, we can even think that economic agents are blind, but it is enough to look at the world to understand that the neoliberal policies based on free trade and non-intervention of the states in the economy to understand the reluctance of the agents to invest. if the market is not working, if the players are not investing, then we should not expect market instruments to solve the problem. look at the results of the long-term refinancing operations of banks carried out by the european central bank. as history teaches us, a recessionary cycle will only be broken by new policies based on an ambitious public investment programme that restores the central role of the states in the construction of development strategies.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 115 205 for poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 615 workers made redundant at zaklady chemiczne zachem and two of its suppliers.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant as soon as possible. this was the case for the chemical company pl/zachem, which saw its share of the eu's global chemicals market fall dramatically from 35,2% in 1992 to 17,8% in 2012. at the same time, there was a migration of the chemical industry to asia, where there was a very sharp increase in the manufacture of chemicals, from a share of 8,7% in 2002 to 30,5% in 2012. the difficulties in that company are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the conditions for the application to be eligible for support from the egf have been verified. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to improve the employability of all workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working lives. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the polish authorities submitted application egf/2013/009 pl/zachem following 615 redundancies in zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, related to the suspension of production and the reorganisation of zachem. i voted in favour.
in writing. established more than 50 years ago, zachem s.a. was one of the most important chemical companies in poland and one of the largest companies in the north-western part of the country. from 1989 onwards, with the argument of greater efficiency and flexibility to survive in the new competitive environment, several changes were made both in the management and in the division of the company. in 2006, warsaw-based ciech increased its chemicals portfolio when it acquired zachem and organika sarzyna. with the increase of competition on the asian market, the sole producer in poland saw its market share decrease dramatically from 30,5% in 2002 to 17,8% in 2012. following the sale of tdi assets to basf, ciech, with the consent of the polish government, decided to discontinue the main activities of zachem and to dispose of or liquidate all remaining assets. some 615 workers lost their jobs in the region with the highest unemployment rate in the country. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid to support the main targets with the consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to halt the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to poland, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf under the application egf/2013/009 pl/zachem following 615 redundancies in zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, related to the cessation of production and reorganisation of zachem, operating in nace rev. 2 division 20 (manufacture of chemicals) in the province of kujawsko-pomorskie at nuts ii level.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. following the 615 redundancies at zachem in poland due to a significant reduction in market share in the chemical industry, i am in favour of mobilising eur 115 205. i would also stress that the layoffs at zachem will immediately cause an increase in the unemployment rate unless new jobs are created quickly. the workers zachem fired are mostly skilled, but they never worked in the fields they were qualified for. this is why it is important to adopt vocational retraining measures to enable workers to adapt their initial qualifications to the new needs of the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this application as it meets the required requirements and relates to the mitigation of the damage caused by the dismissal of 615 people in the reference period between 31 march 2013 and 31 july 2013. according to the data referred to by the polish authorities, the eu has experienced a significant decrease in market share in the chemical industry, losing its position as the world leader in sales of chemicals. the trend in recent years points to the migration of the chemical industry to asia, in particular china, with the level of production in asian economies also being driven by lower labour costs, market access, subsidies, taxation and regulation. the redundancies at zachem were unforeseen due to the sudden nature of the increase in supply on the market for tdi (toluene diisocyanate), its main product.
‒ the creation of legislative and budgetary instruments to provide complementary support to the most diverse sectors has proved to be a positive measure in the transition and adjustment of the member states to the era of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in that it can serve to reintegrate people and businesses into the global market. in this case, and in the light of the situation presented, the aid granted to poland is relevant.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, amounting to eur 115 205, for active labour market measures to facilitate the reintegration of 615 workers made redundant at the chemical manufacturer zaklady chemiczne zachem in poland, as i agree with the rapporteur that the essential requirements for the allocation of this fund under regulation no 1927/2006 are fulfilled, which has the particularity of being the lowest amount requested in the history of the egf and will contribute to the reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
‒ due to the effects of the decrease in the prices of its main products, tdi and ech (epychlorinated hydrochloride), and the increase in competition on the asian market, zachem s.a., the sole producer in poland, saw its market share decrease dramatically from 30,5% in 2002 to 17,8% in 2012. some 615 workers lost their jobs in the region's largest employer, which has the highest unemployment rate in the country. the polish authorities then applied for the egf, where they requested eur 115 250 to support 50 of these most disadvantaged workers with recruitment incentives and intervention work. it should also be noted that this is the lowest amount requested in the history of the egf. we agree with the mobilization, but we also reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to stop the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ established more than 50 years ago, zachem s.a. was one of the most important chemical companies in poland and one of the largest companies in the north-western part of the country. from 1989 onwards, zachem s.a. applied measures of greater flexibility to try to survive in the new competitive environment and several changes were made both in management and in the division of the company. in 2006, warsaw-based ciech increased its chemicals portfolio when it acquired zachem and organika sarzyna in december. ciech's tdi, which was produced by its subsidiary zachem, saw its market share fall sharply from 30,5% in 2002 to 17,8% in 2012. following the sale of tdi assets to basf, ciech, with the consent of the polish government, decided to discontinue the main activities of zachem and to dispose of or liquidate all of zachem's remaining assets. some 615 workers lost their jobs at the region's largest employer. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid to support the main targets with the consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to halt the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 094 760 for germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 657 workers made redundant, 390 of them at aleo solar ag.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant as soon as possible. this was the case with the solar panel manufacturer aleo solar. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. between 2005 and 2011, china's share of profits went from 11% to 45%, while germany's share fell from 64% to 21%. the difficulties in that company are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the conditions for the application to be eligible for support from the egf have been verified. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working lives, on equal terms.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. in this context, i voted in favour of the approval of the german application egf/2014/014 de/aleo solar, following 657 redundancies, 390 of which in aleo solar ag, a company active in the manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products, and 267 in two of its subsidiaries, with 476 people expected to participate in the measures during and after the reference period from 7 march 2014 to 7 july 2014.
‒ once again, the solar module industry is applying for the egf. in this case, we are faced with the impact of the sale of a solar panel component unit, such as computer equipment, communication equipment and electronic and optical products to a chinese consortium, which resulted in the maintenance of only 200 jobs, mainly related to the commercial and marketing areas, leaving 657 additional workers unemployed. despite the company's advertised success as a distributor of solar modules, the fact is that it has lost market share in its production. in the two cities, oldenburg and prenzlau, per capita income is well below the national average and unemployment rates are the highest in germany, with the prospect of skilled employment almost absent, and with no potential employers due to low population density, there is a greater risk of long-term unemployment situations. germany is applying for egf support to support the reintegration into the labour market of 476 workers made redundant. in reality, this fund only provides limited immediate support to workers and does nothing to address the consequences of the continuing liberalization of world trade and the neoliberal policies continually pursued by the eu.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to germany, which submitted an application for egf/2014/014 de/aleo solar for a financial contribution from the egf, following 657 redundancies, 390 of which in aleo solar ag, an enterprise in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 26 (manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products) and 267 in two of its subsidiaries.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. this application for the egf covers the mobilisation of a total of 1 094 760 redundancies in germany, related to 657 redundancies in the reference period from 7 march 2014 to 7 july 2014. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the funds concerned because aleo solar was one of the many european solar panel manufacturers that in recent years (since 2010) went bankrupt, ceased operations, stopped production in whole or in part or sold the facilities to chinese investors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the activation of the egf egf/2014/014de/aleo solar as this application meets the eligibility criteria. whereas between 2005 and 2011 the chinese production in this sector showed an increase in profits from 11% to 45%, while germany's dropped from 64% to 21%, which shows, among other factors, the difficulty of this german company to compete in a market more globalised by the competition referred to in this document. in parallel, it is known that china has created excess capacity for the production of solar modules, which neither its domestic nor the international market can absorb, leading to a decline in prices.
‒ the creation of legislative and budgetary instruments to provide complementary support to the most diverse sectors has proved to be a positive measure in the transition and adjustment of member states to the era of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in that it can serve to reintegrate people and businesses into the global market. in this case, and in the light of the situation presented, the aid granted to germany is relevant.
‒ in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement effectively the instruments to support workers who are thus affected and thus to enable them to reintegrate into the labour market. with this in mind, i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany, amounting to eur 1 094 760, following redundancies in aleo solar ag and two subsidiaries. this financial contribution from the egf will make it possible to co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term sustainable employment, as well as to provide grants for self-employment, recruitment incentives and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
‒ once again, aleo solar ag in germany, faced with the impact of the sale of its solar panel component unit, such as computer equipment, communication equipment and electronic and optical products, to a chinese consortium, had to resort to redundancies. this resulted in the maintenance of only 200 jobs, mainly linked to the commercial and marketing areas, leaving another 657 workers without a job. in the two cities, oldenburg and prenzlau, where per capita income is well below the national average and unemployment rates are the highest in germany, there are no potential employers due to the low population density, and there is a greater risk of long-term unemployment. germany is applying for egf support to support the reintegration into the labour market of 476 redundant workers through vocational training, counselling and guidance, entrepreneurship advice, among others. in reality, this fund is only a palliative that does nothing to solve the consequences of the continuing liberalization of world trade and the neoliberal policies continuously pursued by the eu.
in writing. ‒ once again, the solar module industry is asking for support after the layoffs at aleo solar ag in germany, and it is not expected that they will be the last. in this case, you are trying to mitigate the impact of the sale of your solar panel component unit, such as computer equipment, communication equipment and electronic and optical products to a chinese consortium, which resulted in the maintenance of only 200 jobs, mainly related to the commercial and marketing areas, leaving another 657 workers unemployed. despite the company's advertised success as a distributor of solar modules, the fact is that it has lost market share in its production and trade. it happened in two cities, oldenburg and prenzlau, where per capita income is well below the national average and unemployment rates are the highest in germany. germany is applying for egf support to support the reintegration into the labour market of 476 displaced workers through vocational training, counselling and guidance, entrepreneurship counselling, among others. in reality, this fund only provides limited immediate support to workers and does nothing to address the consequences of the ongoing liberalization of world trade, which the eu is also pursuing.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 981 956 for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 708 workers made redundant by the closure of the duferco company and the reduction of staff at the nlmk company.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. this is the case of hainaut steel, duferco-nlmk in the steel sector. according to the belgian authorities, there was a decrease in the eu-27 market share between 2006 and 20011 in crude steel production of 29,4%, compared with an increase of 33,6% in china during the same period. at the same time, there was a decrease in demand for steel products in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis. the difficulties in that company are linked to globalisation and the conditions for the application to be eligible for egf support have been verified. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working lives, on equal terms. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the belgian authorities submitted an application, feg/2013/007 be/hainaut steel, following 708 redundancies related to the closure of duferco and to staff reductions at nlmk, both active in the base metal industries. the total financial contribution requested amounts to eur 981 956. i voted in favour.
‒ the application to which this report refers concerns 708 redundancies in the duferconlmk companies. using the argument of serious economic disturbances, with a decrease in market share and a decrease in production to justify the option of using mass redundancies, the application submitted by belgium to the european globalisation adjustment fund seeks to mobilise the amount of eur 981 956. although the belgian authorities have guaranteed that the financial contribution will in no way replace the actions and responsibilities of the companies under national law or collective agreements, which is an attempt to ensure that the funding is not used to promote redundancies, what is needed is the restoration of the lost jobs and compensation for the damage caused to the lives of these 708 workers and their families.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to belgium, which submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf under egf/2013/007 be/hainaut steel following 708 redundancies related to the closure of the duferco company and to staff reductions at the nlmk company, both active in the sector corresponding to nace rev. 2 division 24 (basic metal industries) and located in the locality of la louvière, in the province of hainaut.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. this is the first application examined under the 2015 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 981 956 from the egf for belgium. the application concerns the redundancies of 708 persons in the reference period from 22 january 2013 to 22 october 2013. i am in favour of this report, stressing that the financial contribution from the egf does not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements.
‒ i voted in favour of this application concerning the closure of duferco and the reduction of staff at nlmk (feg/2013/007 be/hainaut steel) because it meets the requirements. looking at the data between 2006 and 2011, crude steel production in europe 27 decreased by 14,1%, while worldwide it increased by 21,6%. the commission notes that the aid granted to duferco-nlmk is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the restructuring of duferco. this is why this support is essential for these people.
‒ the creation of legislative and budgetary instruments to provide complementary support to the most diverse sectors has proved to be a positive measure in the transition and adjustment of the member states to the era of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in that it can serve to reintegrate people and businesses into the global market. in this case, and in the light of the situation presented, the aid granted to belgium is relevant.
‒ the structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation are now an inescapable reality. and no country or company is immune to the effects of these transformations. as such, the european commission has created a legislative instrument that can provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of the economic crisis and globalisation. given that belgium has submitted an application for financial assistance from the egf following 708 redundancies in duferco and nlmk, which will have a negative impact on the mining and steel production sector in the province of hainaut, i voted in favour of allocating eur 981 956 to this fund, which provides for the reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
‒ the application concerns 708 redundancies in the companies duferco-nlmk. citing serious economic disturbances with a decline in market share and production and justifying the option of a mass redundancy, the application submitted by belgium to the european globalisation adjustment fund seeks to mobilise the amount of eur 981 956. although the belgian authorities guarantee that the financial contribution will in no way replace the actions and responsibilities of the companies under national law or collective agreements, this is an attempt to ensure that the funding is not used to promote redundancies. what is needed is the restoration of the jobs lost and compensation for the damage caused to the lives of these 708 workers and their families.
‒ the application to which this report refers concerns 708 redundancies in the duferco-nlmk companies. belgium's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund seeks to mobilise eur 981 956, arguing that there are serious economic disturbances with a decline in market share and a decrease in production to justify the option of using mass redundancies. although the belgian authorities have guaranteed that the financial contribution will in no way replace the actions and responsibilities of the companies under national law or collective agreements, which is an attempt to ensure that the funding is not used to promote redundancies, what is needed is the restoration of the lost jobs and compensation for the damage caused to the lives of these 708 workers and their families.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 591 486 for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of 910 of the 1 285 workers made redundant at arcelormittal liége s.a.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. this is the case of arcelormittal in the steel sector. according to the belgian authorities, there was a decrease in the market share of the eu-27 between 2006 and 2011 in the production of crude steel by 29,4%, compared to an increase of 33,6% in the same period from china. at the same time, there was a decrease in demand for steel products in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis. the difficulties in that company are linked to globalisation and the conditions for the application to be eligible for egf support have been verified. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working lives, on equal terms. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the belgian authorities submitted the application egf/2014/012 be/arcelormittal following 1 285 redundancies in arcelormittal liège sa, an enterprise operating in the economic sector of the basic metal industries, with 910 people expected to participate in the measures. i voted in favour.
‒ the purpose of this report is to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, amounting to eur 1 591 486, to reintegrate into the labour market the 910 workers out of a total of 1 285 workers made redundant in the liège area, belgium, by arcelormittal liège sa. the report notes that such redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, given the decrease of around 20% in eu crude steel production between 2007 and 2013, which consequently led to job cuts of more than 30%. the workers' struggle in belgium has grown as an expression of the response to the worsening exploitation of workers and the degradation of working conditions in this country. the mobilisation of the fund is important to help these workers cope with the situation they find themselves in, but it cannot be used at all as a palliative to the policy options of mass layoffs. the eu is increasingly revealing the interests it truly serves. the multinationals and big business. not the people.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to belgium, which submitted an application for egf/2014/012 be/arcelormittal for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1 285 redundancies in arcelormittal liège sa, an enterprise operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 24 ('core metals'), with an expected participation of 910 persons during and after the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i am voting in favour of this report on the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 591 486 from the egf for belgium. it concerns 752 redundancies during the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014 and 533 after that period. i would also point out that according to data provided by the belgian authorities, the steel production sector in which arcelormittal liège sa operates has suffered from severe economic disturbances, in particular an accelerated decline in the eu market share, and thus deserves the best possible attention from the egf.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 1285 redundancies in the enterprise arcelormittal liège sa, operating in the nace rev. 2 division 24 (core metals). according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as, on the one hand, the redundancies in question are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as the union market share in the steel production sector decreased from 16% in 2007 to 10% in 2013 and there was a decrease in demand for steel products in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu and a relative increase in production costs, and, on the other hand, such redundancies will have a very negative impact on the liège region, which is highly dependent on the metallurgical sector and in particular on arcelormittal, with the company's share of local employment in the metallurgical sector being 78,9% and 14,3% in the processing sector. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for belgium.
‒ i voted in favour of this nomination because it meets the requirements. it relates to support for 752 redundancies during the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014 and 533 after that period. between 2007 and 2013, crude steel production in the eu-27 decreased from 210,1 million tonnes to 166,2 million tonnes (− 20,9%; annual growth rate of − 3,8%), while worldwide production increased from 1 348,1 million tonnes to 1 649,3 million tonnes (+ 22,3%; annual growth rate of + 3,4%). the decrease in production was more significant in europe than in the united states and russia. on the other hand, there was a sharp increase in asia's share, from 56% to 67% during the same period. several factors have undermined the competitiveness of the eu steel industry and led to the loss of a large number of jobs in the sector in recent years due to the closure of production facilities and the implementation of restructuring measures by several steel producers in europe.
‒ the creation of legislative and budgetary instruments to provide complementary support to the most diverse sectors has proved to be a positive measure in the transition and adjustment of the member states to the era of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in that it can serve to reintegrate people and businesses into the global market. in this case, and in the light of the situation presented, the aid granted to belgium is relevant.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns, including through support for their reintegration into the labour market. considering that belgium has applied for the egf following the dismissal of 1285 workers at arcelormittal liège sa and that the company meets the eligibility criteria, i am in favour of the award of this financial contribution from the egf, amounting to eur 1 591 486, as a way of minimising the harmful effects this has on the level of unemployment and the economy of this country, especially in this steel production sector, which has been confronted with a decline in demand for steel products in the automotive and construction sectors.
‒ this report aims to assist the 910 workers out of a total of 1285 workers made redundant in the liège area, belgium, by arcelormittal liège sa. the commission proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide eur 1 591 486 for reintegration into the labour market. the report notes important structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation, given the decrease of around 20% in crude steel production in the eu between 2007 and 2013, which consequently led to the reduction of jobs by more than 30%. the workers' struggle in belgium has grown as an expression of the response to the worsening exploitation of workers and the degradation of working conditions in this country. the mobilisation of the fund is important to help these workers cope with the situation they find themselves in but it cannot be used at all as a palliative to the policy options of mass layoffs.
‒ the purpose of this report is to mobilise eur 1 591 486 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate into the labour market the 910 workers out of a total of 1285 workers made redundant in the liège area, belgium, by arcelormittal liège s.a. the report notes that such redundancies are related to 'significant structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation', given the decrease of around 20% in eu crude steel production between 2007 and 2013, which consequently led to the reduction of jobs by more than 30%. the workers' struggle in belgium has grown as an expression of the response to the worsening exploitation of workers and the degradation of working conditions in this country. the mobilisation of the egf is important to help these workers cope with their situation but it cannot be used as a solution to the problems resulting from the policy options of mass redundancies and the economic options of market contraction which inevitably lead to the slowdown of the economy.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 222 854 for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 630 workers made redundant by the 1 030 redundancies at caterpillar belgium sa.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. this is the case of caterpillar, a company which manufactures machinery and equipment. its products are exclusively intended for the mining and construction sectors in europe. the factory is therefore exposed to the specific changes in these sectors and is also affected by fluctuations in production factors. its growth is linked to that of the asian economies, especially china and india, and the construction industry in these countries. the difficulties of that company in europe are linked to globalisation and the conditions for the application to be eligible for egf support have been verified. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working lives, on equal terms. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the belgian authorities submitted an application for egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar following the redundancies of 1 030 workers in the machinery and equipment manufacturing company caterpillar belgium s.a. with a planned participation of 630 workers.
‒ following the destruction of the metal industry in europe, with the weakening of the construction industry, and mining, several companies have seen demand for their products fall and competition from emerging countries increase. as a result of this and its relocation, caterpillar in the liège area of belgium has laid off more than 1 030 workers. once again, it is the regions with the highest unemployment rates, lowest skill levels and highest long-term unemployment rates that are being hit again by the consequences of deregulation and liberalisation of world trade and the eu's neoliberal policies. this report concerns belgium's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 630 of these workers in training and job search measures. this support, which is necessary, is not without a strong criticism of the policies which continue to generate situations of this kind and which the eu continues to insist on, rather than pave the way.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this egf should now be granted to belgium, which submitted an application for egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1 030 redundancies in the company caterpillar belgium s.a., operating in nace 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment, n.e.) with a projected participation of 630 people during and after the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 30 april 2014.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i am voting in favour of this report on the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 222 854 from the egf for belgium. it concerns 663 redundancies during the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 30 april 2014 and 367 redundancies after that period. it should be noted that caterpillar has been severely affected by the decline in demand for these products in europe, which has led to a substantial shift of production capacity to third countries. the caterpillar plant in gosselies specialises in vehicle assembly and the production of components, welded assemblies and structures.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 1030 redundancies in the enterprise caterpillar belgium s.a., operating within nace division 2 - 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment, n.e.) during and after the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 30 april 2014. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as it is found, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as it has become cheaper for the company to manufacture and import equipment to europe from asia than to produce in europe for a declining market, and, on the other hand, that such redundancies are expected to have a huge negative impact on the charleroi region, which is facing a very difficult situation in terms of the labour market due to its excessive dependence on traditional industry and the absence of new industries. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for belgium.
‒ i voted in favour of this nomination, as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in this connection, i support the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this application relates to 663 redundancies during the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 30 april 2014 and 367 redundancies after that period at caterpillar. the company has been severely affected by the decline in demand for its business in europe, which has led to a relocation of substantial production capacity to third countries and consequent redundancies of belgian nationals.
‒ the creation of legislative and budgetary instruments to provide complementary support to the most diverse sectors has proved to be a positive measure in the transition and adjustment of the member states to the era of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in that it can serve to reintegrate people and businesses into the global market. in this case, and in the light of the situation presented, the aid granted to belgium is relevant.
‒ in line with my favourable position in other reports voted on in this plenary session on the same subject, i also voted in favour of this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, amounting to eur 1 222 854, in response to the application submitted by belgium concerning redundancies in caterpillar belgium sa. we are facing situations related to structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of which it has become cheaper for the company to manufacture and import equipment to europe from asia than to produce in europe for a declining market. for this reason and pursuant to article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013, i agree to the proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund.
‒ a number of companies in the metal sector in europe have seen demand for their products fall and competition from emerging countries increase. as a result of this and its relocation, the caterpillar company in the liège area of belgium has laid off more than 1 030 workers. once again, it is the regions with the highest unemployment rates, the lowest skill levels and the highest long-term unemployment rates that are being hit again by the consequences of deregulation and liberalisation of world trade and the eu's neoliberal policies. this report concerns belgium's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 630 of these workers in training and job search measures.
‒ following the destruction of the metal industry in europe, with the weakening of the construction industry, and mining, several companies have seen demand for their products fall and competition from emerging countries increase. as a result of this and its relocation, caterpillar in the liège area of belgium has laid off more than 1030 workers. once again, it is the regions with the highest unemployment rates, lowest skill levels and highest long-term unemployment rates that are hit hardest by the consequences of deregulation and liberalisation of world trade and the eu's neoliberal policies. this report concerns belgium's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 630 of these workers in training and job search measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal which aims, on the one hand, to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from road vehicles and, on the other, to adapt the legislation to the technological requirements of electric mobility without affecting the load capacity of vehicles. this will help to speed up the introduction of more aerodynamic or hybrid vehicles. the proposal also aims to improve the intermodality of freight transport and to take measures to improve road safety.
‒ the proposed amendments bring improvements not only to new truck models but also to the safety of truck drivers and road users. member states should, for example, take specific measures to identify vehicles likely to exceed the relevant weight limits and implement appropriate national provisions within two years of the entry into force of the revision of the directive. it was also decided that the commission should review the directive three years after the national provisions enter into force, taking into account certain market segments, in particular that of light commercial vehicles.
the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the safety of vehicles in road traffic. it is important to know at the outset whether the circulation of vehicles of these dimensions and weights is compatible with the road network of each member state, in particular as regards road endurance, maintenance and safety. the prerogatives given to member states in deciding on the type of vehicles that can be used on their road network are fundamental. it is recognised that certain technical aspects will result in improvements in the mechanical and energy performance, comfort, safety and reduction of polluting gases, including greenhouse gases, of vehicles. for these reasons, we voted in favour.
‒ i consider it essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, to improve road safety, to adapt the applicable legislation to technological developments and to evolving market needs and to facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure. i therefore vote in favour of this document on second reading.
‒ this proposal for a directive contains a set of important measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase road safety and adapt the sector to technological and market developments. since it improves the aerodynamics of the cabin of motor vehicles, with energy efficiency advantages, it also allows an increase in the load capacity of vehicles and maximum lengths. from now on, three- and/or two-axle vehicles with two- and/or three-axle semi-trailers up to a total weight of 44 and/42 tonnes are allowed to circulate. in order to ensure the application of this directive, member states should carry out annual checks on the weight of vehicles and the weighing devices used on board or otherwise should also be made available to the driver. the exchange of information between member states on their own infringements and controls should also be extended. i am in favour of adopting this document because it allows for the harmonization of the rules on road transport, removing obstacles to its development and obstructions to the internal market.
‒ technological developments make it possible to install retractable or retractable aerodynamic devices at the rear of vehicles. similarly, the use of alternative powertrains, which will draw energy from consumable fuels and/or a battery, allows pollution to be reduced. however, greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced in order to improve road safety, to adapt the applicable legislation to technological developments and to evolving market needs and to facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure. however, the installation of such devices would exceed the maximum authorised lengths and weights under council directive 96/53/ec. it is therefore appropriate to provide for a derogation from the maximum authorised weights and dimensions of vehicles and vehicle combinations laid down in directive 96/53/ec. the aim is to enable manufacturers to introduce new truck models that exceed current weight and size limits in order to improve the overall safety of the vehicle, its energy efficiency and its environmental performance. this proposal for a directive is aimed at making these changes. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve road safety, adapt the legislation applicable to technological and market developments, protecting road infrastructure and ensuring at the same time undistorted competition. technological developments have made it possible to install retractable or retractable aerodynamic devices at the rear of vehicles, thereby reducing their strength and, consequently, their consumption. the installation of these devices will cause vehicles to exceed the length limits, and therefore derogation from the regulation setting these limits is necessary. a new cab profile would help to improve road safety by reducing the blind spots for drivers, saving many lives. a new cabin profile would also allow for the installation of collision energy absorption structures.
‒ the amendment of the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic, as well as the maximum weights of certain vehicles on the same routes, is essential given the constant flow of transport and loads in the member states of the european union. however, it is important and appropriate to monitor compliance with the standards set and the proposed amendment to the previous legislation on this matter.
‒ this document proposes a set of derogations from directive 96/53/ec, with the aim of fixing new maximum dimensions and new maximum weights, in national and international traffic, for certain road vehicles circulating in the european union. it is necessary to know in advance whether the circulation of vehicles of these dimensions and weights is compatible with the road network of each member state of the european union, in particular as regards road endurance, maintenance and safety. certain technical aspects of the diploma may result in improvements in the mechanical and energy performance, comfort, safety and emission reduction of vehicles. that is why we are voting in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, as it is a regulation that leads to increased long-term european investment in the real economy, and this funding is 'a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' (§1). the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment and competitiveness for building a future economy, in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing for various infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or long-lived listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. by providing funding for these projects, eltifs contribute to the financing of the union's real economy and the implementation of its policies. financing for projects such as transport infrastructure, sustainable energy production or distribution, social infrastructure (housing or hospitals), implementation of new technologies and systems that reduce resource and energy consumption, or continued growth of smes may be scarce. eltifs can play a key role in this regard and can also raise capital by attracting investors from third countries.
the rhetoric of smart or not smart growth, innovation and investment does not hide the eu's persistence in a set of policies that block the realisation of any of these factors. the crisis of capitalism and its expression in the eu marked by over-accumulation of capital and the confirmation of the law of the tendency of the rate of profit to fall are still developing and deepening. in this particular case, if the market is not working, if the players are not investing, then we should not expect market instruments to solve the problem. the results of the ecb's longterm refinancing operations on banks are shown. this instrument is more of the same. it doesn't even innovate. it does not even contain a clause guaranteeing the social and labour rights of the jobs to be financed. it contains no environmental guarantee. as history teaches us, the recessionary cycle will only be broken by new policies based on an ambitious public investment programme that will restore the states to their leading role in the economy and in the construction of growth and development strategies.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment and competitiveness for building a future economy in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing for various infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or long-lived listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. by providing funding for these projects, eltifs contribute to the financing of the union's real economy and the implementation of its policies. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european commission has focused its policy activity on fostering economic growth as well as job creation, implementing concrete measures aimed at boosting investment in the european union. i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to boost the long-term investments that must be made at european level, particularly those which make a decisive contribution to deepening the european single market and the transeuropean energy, transport and telecommunications networks. i also believe that the european union should make available a wider range of investment funds to support start-ups, thus diversifying their funding opportunities, which should be more in the form of venture capital companies rather than traditional bank loans granted by entities in the financial system.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote high employment and competitiveness. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing for various infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or long-lived listed small and medium-sized enterprises that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. eltifs thus contribute to the financing of the union's real economy and the implementation of its policies. as the financial crisis has shown, to tackle the lack of financing, it is important to complement bank financing with a wide range of sources of financing that better mobilise capital markets. eltifs can play a key role in this respect by channelling private savings into the european economy and attracting investors from third countries. i therefore voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the draft regulation to lay down rules for a clear identification of the categories of assets eligible for investment by eltifs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the eu2020 strategy, generating jobs and competitiveness, but in a regulated and transparent way. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing for a range of projects and infrastructure, unlisted companies or listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), complementing bank financing in order to address possible financing shortfalls, mobilising capital and attracting investors from third countries. i also consider that it is necessary to regulate the rules for eltifs in order to avoid market distortions.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to move away from austerity and to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. these funds provide financing for various infrastructure projects, as well as for unlisted companies or small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), increasing employment and competitiveness.
‒ i voted in favour of this supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation on european long-term investment funds, precisely because i consider it to be an essential instrument for moving towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy. this financial mechanism will be the starting point for the creation of an integrated internal market for raising capital, which can and should be channelled into long-term investment in the european economy. for this reason, and like the rapporteur, i think it is essential that the commission should be able to identify the main obstacles to the crossborder mobilisation of these funds and their tax treatment, so that the objectives set out in the regulation can ensure the standardisation of investment requirements and ensure the conditions for the activity of these funds throughout the union.
we have a serious problem in the eu which arises from the expectations of economic operators who do not see any prospects for growth at eu level. we can talk about innovation, we can talk about smart growth, we can use whatever rhetoric we want. we might even think that economic agents are blind. but you only need to look at the world to understand that neoliberal policies based on free trade and non-intervention by the state in the economy to understand the reluctance of the agents to invest. and if the market doesn't work, if the players don't invest, then we shouldn't expect market instruments to solve the problem. see the results of the ecb's longterm refinancing operations on banks. this instrument is more of the same. it doesn't even innovate. they do not even contain a clause guaranteeing the social and labour rights of the jobs to be financed. they contain no environmental guarantees. as history teaches us, the recessionary cycle will only be broken by new policies based on an ambitious public investment programme that restores the central role of the states in building growth and development strategies.
‒ one of the major challenges facing the european union is to combat the fragmentation of the internal market in a number of areas, in particular the obstacles to the smooth functioning of the integrated electronic payments market. i support the bidegain report because i believe that this new regulation prevents excessive levels of fees from becoming widespread and promotes the creation of a genuine european-wide payments market by setting a maximum interchange fee of 0.2% of the transaction value for debit cards and 0.3% for credit cards, whether they are cross-border or national. the establishment of a secure, efficient and competitive electronic payment system benefits consumers, traders and businesses, and the savings from this new regulation should be reflected in lower retail prices.
‒ this was an important vote of the strasbourg session in march 2015. in order to combat the fragmentation of the internal market caused by direct and indirect obstacles to the smooth functioning of an integrated electronic payments market, i voted in favour of european legislation to address the distinctions between national and international payments, making the european electronic payments market a reality, and to provide rules to make electronic payments effectively 'safer, more efficient, more competitive and more innovative' (§6), which is 'crucial for consumers, traders and businesses to be able to fully benefit from the advantages of the single market, especially as the world moves towards electronic commerce' (§6).
‒ payment transactions associated with debit and credit cards will be subject to a maximum eu interchange rate within six months. the idea is to prevent excessive levels from becoming widespread and to promote the creation of an eu-wide payments market. currently, in most eu countries, interchange fees paid by merchants to banks for the use of debit and credit cards are not subject to any legislation but to decisions by national authorities and vary widely between member states, creating barriers between national payment markets. the new regulation aims to prevent excessive levels of these fees from becoming widespread, to increase their transparency, to ensure a level playing field and to promote the creation of an eu-wide payments market. the ceilings are set at 0.3% of the transaction value for credit cards and 0.2% for debit cards, which i think is fair.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal to regulate, directly and indirectly, the exchange rates applied by companies and banks that issue and market debit and credit cards. the report comes out of the trilogue procedure with positive aspects. among them is the fact that payment and service providers cannot propose or require interchange fees for each bank transaction exceeding 0.2% of the value of the transaction, when it comes to debit cards. in national operations, member states may set a lower rate ceiling than that provided for and impose a fixed amount for the maximum rate as a limit on the amount of the resulting rate. they may also authorise payment service providers to apply interchange fees per transaction of up to eur 0,05 revised every five years. as regards credit cards, fees at european level are limited to levels not exceeding 0.3% of the transaction value. in this case, member states may also set lower thresholds for national operations. each member state should lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this regulation. we voted in favour.
‒ the fragmentation of the internal market is detrimental to competitiveness, growth and job creation in the union. with a view to the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to remove direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning and completion of an integrated electronic payments market, without distinguishing between national and cross-border payments. i agree with the aims of this proposal, hence my vote in favour.
‒ some member states have adopted or are developing legislation to regulate interchange fees directly or indirectly, covering areas such as interchange fee caps, merchant service fees or the acceptance of all cards by the service provider. i am in favour of the establishment of uniform technical and commercial requirements for payment transactions, so that there is no differentiation within the european union. i am therefore in favour of the new rules which are due to come into force in six months' time, stipulating that a maximum amount for bank charges should not exceed 0.3% of the transaction value in the case of credit card payments and 0.2% when the debit card is the chosen payment method.
‒ the fragmentation of the internal market is detrimental to competitiveness, growth and job creation in the union. it is therefore necessary to remove direct and indirect obstacles to the smooth functioning of an integrated market for secure and efficient electronic payments, without distinguishing between national and cross-border payments, in order to enable consumers, traders and businesses to fully benefit from the advantages of the single market, especially as the world moves towards electronic commerce. logically, obstacles to the efficient functioning of the card market, including in the area of card payments and payments via the internet and mobile devices associated with card transactions, must be removed. card-based payment transactions, rather than cash payments, could be advantageous for merchants and consumers, provided that the charges for the use of card-based payment systems are set at a cost-efficient level, while contributing to fair competition, innovation and the entry of new market entrants. in view of this framework, this proposal for a regulation subjects payment transactions associated with debit and credit cards to a maximum interchange fee. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that all payment transactions associated with debit and credit cards should, at most, be subject to an exchange rate with a defined limit. the information from the assessments on this issue indicates that the prohibition of interchange fees for debit card transactions will be beneficial for the widespread acceptance and use of cards, for the development of the single market and will generate further benefits for merchants and consumers. i therefore believe that, in view of the current situation, a single maximum level of interchange fees should be imposed for both national and crossborder card transactions.
‒ at a time when we are moving globally towards e-commerce, the existence of secure, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments is crucial if consumers, traders and businesses are to benefit fully from the advantages of the single market. the creation of uniform rules on electronic payment methods is a useful tool in removing any obstacle to the freedom to provide services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a ceiling for interchange fees for card-based payment transactions within the european union. within six months, 0.2% will be the rate fixed for debit card payments and 0.3% the rate for credit card payments, subject to the five-year transition period for national payment transactions. until now, exchange rates have been the responsibility of the national authorities, creating a marked disparity across the member states. the aim of this regulation was not only to prevent excessive levels of these charges from becoming widespread, but also to increase transparency, ensure fair conditions of competition and promote the creation of a european-wide payments market which benefits. this measure directly benefits traders, who thereby reflect in their prices the reduction in fees payable to banks, and indirectly consumers, who benefit from the price reduction in the goods and services they purchase.
‒ after having been presented to the european parliament at first reading, this report comes back after the trilogue with positive aspects. among them is the fact that payment and service providers cannot propose or require interchange fees for each bank transaction exceeding 0.2% of the value of the transaction when it comes to debit cards. in national operations, member states may set a lower ceiling for the percentage rates than provided for and impose a fixed amount for the maximum rate as a limit on the amount of the resulting rate. they may also authorise payment service providers to apply interchange fees per transaction of up to eur 0,05 revised every five years. as regards credit cards, fees at european level are limited to levels not exceeding 0.3% of the transaction value. in this case, member states may also set lower thresholds for national operations. in the case of universal cards, the rule for debit card transactions is followed. each member state should lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this regulation. in defence of consumers, the burden of such charges, which represent a more easy profit for banks and financial companies, is unacceptable.
‒ this report concerns a proposal to regulate, directly and indirectly, the exchange rates applied by companies and banks issuing and marketing debit and credit cards. after having been presented to the european parliament at first reading, this report comes back after the trilogue with positive aspects. among them is the fact that payment and service providers cannot propose or require interchange fees for each bank transaction exceeding 0.2% of the value of the transaction when it comes to debit cards. in defence of consumers, with regard to e-commerce, online sales and payments with such cards, the burden of such fees, which are nothing but more easy profit for banks and financial companies, is unacceptable.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. this is the case of saint-gobain sekurit, which manufactures safety glass for the automotive industry. the company's activities were closely linked to the production trends in the automotive industry, which between 2007 and 2012 decreased from 21,9 to 19,5 million units, while in the rest of the world it increased from 47,5 to 60,6 million units. the difficulties of that company in europe are linked to globalisation and the conditions for the application to be eligible for egf support have been verified. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working lives, on equal terms. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support.
in january 2015, the decision was adopted on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of belgium, amounting to eur 1 339 928, due to the dismissal of 257 workers between august and december 2013 at saint-gobain sekurit. a significant decrease in production between 2007 and 2012 at sgs benelux, driven by a significant increase in production in the rest of the world, led to a loss of around eur 20 million at this company. however, in the same group, profits were recorded in other companies on more profitable terms, leading the group to the option of a layoff of 257 workers. the use of this funding, the report says, is aimed at providing individual assistance in job search, case management and general information services, training and retraining. it is shameful that the eu is sympathetic to the bedouin strategy of multinational companies, which set up camp in a given place in exchange for large amounts of community funds and, when it suits them, for the sake of maximising profits, set up camp and move on to other places, often with the generous support of the very same eu funds.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and should now be granted to belgium, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of egf/2013/011 be/saint-gobain sekurit following 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a production unit of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following the closure of a production unit of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group producing safety glass for the automotive industry, which resulted in 257 redundancies during the period from 31 august to 31 december 2013. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria provided for in the egf regulation, as it is found, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as the automotive safety glass manufacturing sector has suffered from severe economic disruption as a result of various factors such as declining production, increasing market shares of third country competitors and increasing imports of these products, and, on the other hand, that the redundancies occurred in a difficult socioeconomic context, characterised by a relatively high level of structural and long-term unemployment and low levels of skills and competences. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for belgium.
‒ i voted in favour of this application as it meets the requirements. this decision concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 339 928 from the egf in order to mitigate the effects of the redundancies caused by the lay-offs of 257 people in the period from 31 august 2013 to 31 december 2013 in the sector of safety glass manufacturing for the automotive industry. this sector has suffered from severe economic disturbances due to various factors, leading to a decrease in the union production of automotive safety glass caused by an increase in the market shares of third country competitors and an increase in imports of these products. in addition, there has been a general trend among manufacturers and suppliers of the automotive industry to shift production from western europe (particularly france, belgium and spain) to eastern europe. in addition, the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes the following measures for the reintegration into the labour market of 257 dismissed workers: individual assistance in job search, case management and general information services; training and retraining; promotion of entrepreneurship.
‒ the creation of legislative and budgetary instruments to provide complementary support to the most diverse sectors has proved to be a positive measure in the transition and adjustment of the member states to the era of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument in that it can serve to reintegrate people and businesses into the global market. in this case, and in the light of the situation presented, the aid granted to belgium is relevant.
‒ a significant decrease in production between 2007 and 2012 at sgs benelux, driven by a significant increase in production in the rest of the world, led to a loss at saint-gobain (belgium) sekurit of around eur 20 million. however, in the same group, profits were recorded in other companies on more profitable terms, leading the group to the option of a redundancy of 257 workers. the use of this funding, the report says, is aimed at providing individual assistance in job search, case management and general information services, training and retraining. the belgian authorities have confirmed that the egf contribution does not replace the company's liability actions under national law and will not be used for restructuring operations.
in writing. ‒ the in january 2015, a decision was adopted on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium for an amount of eur 1 339 928 following the dismissal of 257 workers between august and december 2013 at saint-gobain sekurit. a significant decrease in production between 2007 and 2012 at sgs benelux, driven by a significant increase in production in the rest of the world, led to a loss in this company of around eur 20 million. however, in the same group, profits were recorded in other companies on more profitable terms, which led the group to the option of laying off 257 workers. the use of this funding, the report says, is aimed at providing individual assistance in job search, case management and general information services, training and retraining. the belgian authorities have confirmed that the egf contribution does not replace the company's liability actions under national law and will not be used for restructuring operations. we voted in favour of mobilising finance, although the structural solution requires regulation of markets by the states, with obligations on companies, to safeguard jobs.
‒ equality between men and women must be seen as one of the pillars of our society, which is why the issues raised in this own-initiative report of the european parliament are central to europe. the work carried out by my colleague marc tarabella calls for the european union and the member states to take gender into account in the europe 2020 strategy as well as the development of a plan for investment in social infrastructure, as this is estimated to have a positive effect on the growth of gross domestic product. because of these and other issues raised in the report, such as the prevention of violence against women and the call to resume negotiations on the maternity directive, i shall vote in favour of this text.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, firstly because of the need to give due weight to the role of women in the framework of the new policies for economic revitalization, ensuring that the gains from these policies are effectively reverted to greater empowerment of women. and there is evidence of the need for this procedure: the increase in the employment rate for women has been rather slow, from 58.1% to 62.8% over the last 10 years, which is obviously a weak and disappointing development. if the current trend continues, the europe 2020 target will not be reached until 2038. it is therefore essential and urgent to promote the participation of women in the labour market. secondly, we see the persistence of the gender pay gap: "if current trends continue, it will be necessary to wait until 2084 for women and men to have equal pay". it is therefore important to act on this matter in order to speed up the reduction of this gap. finally, they add to these reasons the need for a concerted eu response to poverty among older women (10% more than men) and the need for a strong political signal on the reform of the maternity leave directive.
in writing. ‒ as the report points out, it is regrettable and we must step up action to eradicate the fact that women do not receive the same pay as men when they perform the same or equally valuable functions. the reduction of the gender pay gap by one percentage point will lead to an increase in economic growth of 0,1%, which makes the reduction of the gender pay gap crucial in the current economic downturn. equal participation of men and women in the labour market could significantly increase the eu's economic potential. more women than men live in poverty and social exclusion, especially older women, whose pension is on average 39% lower than that of men. the council must urgently take a position on the maternity leave directive because the current directive does not reflect the evolution of society. a comprehensive policy framework on gender-based violence should focus on prevention, prosecution of offenders, protection of victims, education for equality, and sanctions for violent or discriminatory behaviour against women.
in writing. ‒ this report makes a reasonable diagnosis of the setbacks that women's rights have had in recent years, particularly in the last decade, although we do not agree with some statements, when it is tried to make believe that the european semester can meet social objectives, which is impossible because it is contradictory. the report also does not hold the eu or governments responsible for policies which have led to the destruction of the social functions of states, unemployment, lower incomes, and pushed women into poverty and exploitation. we have proposed several amendments in this respect, all of which were rejected by the majority of parliament, which says a lot about your position on this matter. in fact, there is no desire to identify the real causes of these setbacks. the balance between personal and professional life has also deteriorated: the european union has a long history of working towards a common european policy on health and safety at work. we also welcome the fact that this report addresses sexual and reproductive rights from a fundamental human rights perspective and recommends easier access to contraception and abortion, although we recognise that it is up to the member states to define health policies. we voted in favour.
‒ this report addresses important issues such as the pay gap, women's participation in the labour market, the impact of the crisis, poverty, the proposal for a directive on maternity leave, currently blocked by the member states, and thus makes a good diagnosis of the hard work still to be done in relation to women's rights. i would stress and deplore the fact that women are not paid the same when they perform the same or equivalent functions as men. in the eu, the gender pay gap is 16.4%. we must hold to account the policies of various governments that have reduced wages and withdrawn social rights and that lead so many women to live in a situation of poverty and social exclusion . it is also urgent to find effective measures to prevent and punish violence against women.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal. i believe that there are matters in which the principle of subsidiarity must prevail and that it should be the member states who decide on them. the issues of quotas and free access to voluntary termination of pregnancy must also be approached differently and discussed in a broader context.
in writing. this proposal is to examine the progress made in the european union with regard to gender equality, and some proposals have been put forward with which i do not agree. in this respect, i voted against the adoption of 'systems of parity and gender quotas introduced in some member states' because i believe that all people should be in public or private positions by competence and recognition of their work, to the detriment of gender quotas. i also voted against the proposal for 'easier access to abortion' because i believe that preventive measures, family planning and the availability of contraceptive methods to prevent pregnancy should be adopted first, thus protecting the safeguarding of human rights. finally, i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is essential to continue to work actively to improve gender equality not only in the european union but also worldwide. the report focuses on this important subject and not on divisive issues which have unfortunately been brought into the european debate and are strictly a matter for the member states.
‒ equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the eu, enshrined in the treaties since the treaty of rome in 1957 and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this resolution takes stock of the progress made in 2013 towards full gender equality. it stresses, first of all, that the increase in the employment rate of women is still quite slow. since 2002, it has increased from 58,1% to 62,8% and has been affected by the crisis. the fiscal consolidation policies have affected the public sector, where women are more represented, and have led to an increase in precarious employment (32% for women compared with 8.2% for men). these short-term factors are accompanied by structural problems, notably the gender pay gap. it should be noted that according to an oecd study of december 2012, the eu could see its gdp increase by 12% if there was true equality between men and women in the labour market. so, although i disagree with some of the points raised in the report, particularly the defence of easier access to abortion, i voted in favour, given the importance of this issue.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a whole because it is very balanced in expressing the concerns for a society with true equality between men and women at a time when europe is showing very strong signs of economic recovery and therefore of emerging from the crisis, leading to the fulfilment of the europe 2020 strategy. in order to achieve this, it is essential to improve the quality of work and to combat gender inequalities, in particular in factors such as the wage gap for the performance of the same tasks, inequalities in access to the labour market, among others. at the same time, i also believe that it is urgent to introduce measures to promote the reconciliation of private and professional life in order to combat the persistence of stereotypes.
‒ i will support all measures aimed at promoting gender equality at all levels. the resolution also takes a position on the maternity leave directive. the rapporteur also points out that the directive currently in force (from 1992) does not reflect the evolution of society and does not sufficiently protect mothers. i believe that competition policy and competitiveness in general are vital to the health and success of the eu and should be at the top of our political agenda. however, we must always bear in mind that this must never override the rights of workers and the fundamental guarantees of every citizen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a set of amendments proposed to this report by the epp, which focused on the progress made in the european union on gender equality during 2013. unfortunately, as the rapporteur points out, there has not been much progress and there is still a long way to go in the european union on this matter. that said, although i agree with many of the points in the final report, it contained two articles on extremely divisive issues (which the epp amendments failed to remove) concerning sexual and reproductive policies which are the sole responsibility of the member states in accordance with the european treaties and the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and i therefore voted against this report.
in the report, while it makes a good diagnosis of the setbacks that women's rights have suffered in recent years, it does not hold the european commission and the policies of the various governments responsible for the policies implemented which are at the root of the destruction of the social functions of the states, of unemployment and which push women into poverty, exploitation and, in extreme cases, prostitution. our amendments were all rejected by the ep, which shows that the majority of the ep has no desire to identify the real causes of these setbacks. it is positive that this report addresses sexual and reproductive rights from a fundamental human rights perspective and recommends easier access to contraception and abortion, although we recognise that it is up to the member states to define health policies. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the tarabella report (a8-0015/2015), progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013, because it indicated substantial progress on the road to gender equality and because it sets out priorities and principles which, if implemented, will allow for significant progress in this area of social justice and modernity in the near future, making the eu a global reference in gender equality.
‒ this report makes a good diagnosis of the setbacks that women's rights have experienced in recent years, particularly in the last decade, although we do not agree with some of the statements, when it is attempted to make believe that the european semester can achieve social objectives, which is impossible because it is contradictory. the report does not hold the european commission and the policies of the various governments responsible for the policies implemented which have led to the destruction of the social functions of the states, to unemployment, to decreased incomes, pushing women into poverty, exploitation and, in extreme cases, prostitution. we have proposed several amendments in this respect, all of which have been rejected by the ep, which shows that the majority of the ep is not willing to identify the real causes of these setbacks. we also welcome the fact that this report addresses sexual and reproductive rights from a fundamental human rights perspective and recommends easier access to contraception and abortion, although we recognise that it is up to the member states to define health policies. we voted in favour.
‒ a sound european union competition policy is of paramount importance in our times. only through an innovative competition policy and an open market will we overcome the current financial crisis. eu competition policy has brought numerous benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been an essential tool in removing obstacles to the free movement of people, services, goods and capital and in preserving a competitive single market. i particularly welcome the adoption of the directive on antitrust actions and the ecj ruling on anti-competitive fees for the use of credit cards. despite the successes achieved, i reiterate the need to continue to identify possible imbalances between member states which could distort competition and to pay attention to the phenomena of social dumping and the misuse of structural funds which are incorrectly used to indirectly shift services and production to other member states.
‒ the framework of a competitive europe, centred on clear competition rules, is the only one that allows a positive and constructive way out of the crisis. i believe that the fight against cartels, the abuse of a dominant market position or certain state aids are elements which distort the internal market and therefore require close supervision by the commission, especially in the context of ex post bailouts of financial institutions by states and the growing need for a transparent policy of harmonising tax provisions throughout the eu. at the same time, i support the appointment of the rapporteur for the creation and implementation of legislation promoting competition in the energy, digital, financial, industrial and transport sectors. if we want to give credibility to the portuguese and european economy and turn the page to a new era of prosperity, we must closely monitor the competition dossier, which is why i voted in favour of the rapporteur messerschmidt's suggestions in this particular case.
‒ a competition policy based on a fair business plan in all sectors is an essential instrument for ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic, sustainable and innovative internal market, for economic growth and job creation, and for being competitive on the global stage. the report finds that competition does not operate equally well in all member states. it should be noted that the cartels have resulted in losses of between eur 181 and 320 billion. tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens cost eu taxpayers around €1 trillion a year in lost revenue, distorting competition in the single market between companies that pay taxes and those that do not. competition drives innovation, productivity, job creation and investment by all actors across the single market and across all business models, including smes, while fully respecting national diversities. for all these reasons, i consider it important that the commission applies the rules on antitrust, state aid and merger control in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and social progress.
‒ this report analyses eu competition policy. as always, he laments the single market, the open market and the sacrosanct free competition. although it is punctuated here and there with aspects which we support and which cannot be denied or hidden, such as criticism of state aid to the banking sector, tax fraud in the eu and its component in competition policy, the recognition of the existence of cartels and the need to combat them, the fact is that it insists on the continuation of eu competition policy and its consequences. the report calls for the eu to pursue these policies further, in particular by calling for the liberalisation of sectors such as transport, health, industry and energy, and for a chapter on competition rules in ttip, the digital single market, etc. more liberalization is called for in more public and strategic sectors of the economy. without addressing the consequences, such as creating difficulties for state intervention, and serious obstacles to competition in other eu policy areas, such as the cap in agriculture, where entire crops are being wiped out. the defence of the role of competition policy as an instrument for preserving european democracy speaks volumes about the concept of democracy that prevails here.
‒ the report includes some positive points concerning the violation of eu competition policies, such as: criticism of state aid to the banking sector; the google case and its lack of resolution and the scale of tax fraud competition in the eu. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to promote the development of a european security and defence policy. for these reasons i abstained.
‒ it should be clear to everyone that competition policy and competitiveness in general are vital to the health and success of the eu as a whole and therefore of its citizens. it is by fostering an innovative competitive culture that we may be able to finally emerge from the financial crisis. through an effective competition policy, we can consolidate and strengthen the eu's importance in the world. therefore, as we embark on a new political mandate, the term 'competitiveness' must be at the top of our political agenda. this report shows that much remains to be done to improve eu competition policy. let us all work together to achieve the goals we have set.
‒ some sectors of the single market remain divided by national borders and artificial barriers, and there is sometimes an abuse of structural funds or tax aid that causes difficulties for the european union's competition policy. i believe that competition policy is an instrument for preserving european economic democracy, in that it prevents excessive concentration of economic and financial power in a few hands and allows the competitiveness of the various european sectors to be increased. in this sense, and because i believe that it is essential to improve the single market in the area of competition policy, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ in the single market, some sectors remain divided by national borders and artificial barriers. on the other hand, we are witnessing practices such as social dumping and the misuse of structural funds, which raise difficulties which also need to be addressed in the framework of eu competition policy. competition policy is an instrument for preserving european democracy in that it prevents excessive concentration of economic and financial power in a few hands, which puts at risk the independence of european political power vis-à-vis the large industrial and banking groups. the report also stresses that competition policy is a cornerstone of the european social market economy, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, the development of smes and the protection of consumer interests. in this respect, it is worth noting the commitment shown by the new commission to effectively apply competition rules in the areas of antitrust and cartels, mergers and state aid, to align competition instruments with market developments, and to promote an innovative competition culture both in the eu and globally. i voted in favour.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's internal market is not distorted. practices that devalue labour, state aid that favours companies in favour of others, unlawful competition practices, the negative impact of cartels and the monopolization of certain sectors make it difficult or even impossible to maintain the healthy competitiveness that is essential for economic growth and job creation. it also calls into question the eu's free market principle. i also agree that the need to ensure a level playing field for businesses in the internal market also implies the fight against dumping and the implementation of social and environmental legislation at european level.
‒ i believe that competition policy and competitiveness in general are vital to the health and success of the eu and should be at the top of our political agenda. however, we must always bear in mind that this must never override the rights of workers and the fundamental guarantees of every citizen.
‒ it is a well-established fact that we need to promote healthy, sustainable and effective competition in order to pursue the ambitious objectives of the union in terms of jobs, growth, innovation, productivity and investment, with a view to a more globally competitive european economy. overall, i agree with the proposals made in this resolution concerning the annual report on eu competition policy and therefore voted in favour of it. i would also stress that the adoption of these proposals would be extremely beneficial for the completion of the single market, especially those relating to greater protection of the rights and interests of consumers and to ensuring greater competitiveness for our common competition policy.
‒ it was in the name of free competition that liberalizations and privatizations of strategic sectors of the economy and the advance of the market on growing spheres of social life were justified. the result was catastrophic. public monopolies have been replaced by private monopolies or oligopolies. the promises of more competition, better quality and lower prices are now a mirage. in the electricity sector, liberalisation and the end of vertical integration of generation and distribution in publicly owned companies have led to increases in energy bills for businesses and households. as monopoly profits and rents have risen. in transport the picture is similar, with the same public revenues guaranteeing private profits. we therefore condemn this false argument of competition, which has only served to weaken the national states and to line the pockets of the same old ones.
‒ this annual report lauds the single market, the open market and free competition. although it is punctuated here and there with aspects which we support and which cannot be denied or hidden, such as criticism of state aid to the banking sector, tax fraud in the eu and its component in competition policy, the recognition of the existence of cartels and the need to combat them, the fact is that it insists on the pursuit of eu competition policy with all its consequences. the report calls for the eu to deepen these policies, in particular by calling for the liberalisation of sectors such as transport, health, industry and energy, and advocating the existence of a chapter on competition rules in ttip in the digital single market. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank, which has been playing a key role in stabilising financial markets in the euro area, particularly in countries most exposed to over-indebtedness. i also support its action, which will be essential as a tool to control deflationary trends threatening the debt reduction programmes of several member states and to create conditions for the resumption of investment and economic growth in the euro area, in particular by making use of the flexibility provided for in the stability and growth pact.
‒ the report on the activity of the european central bank in 2013 is conclusive proof of the complete failure of the ecb's monetary policy. he failed to forecast economic growth and inflation. it has failed in all measures to control inflation and inject liquidity into the economy, whether in setting interest rates or in the various refinancing operations of the banks. nothing is said about the ecb's growing power. no suggestion is made to question the legitimacy of this institution. we strongly disagree with the report's praise of the ecb's policy and particularly of the banking union, which represents a further step in the amputation of fundamental parts of the sovereignty of the states and the concentration of power in the hands of big financial capital, through the institutions at its service, such as the ecb, which at the same time manages and supervises the financial sector in the eu. we continue to advocate a fundamental change in the ecb's statutes, which guarantees its political control by the states and their presence, on an equal footing, in its management. in the name of a supposed independence, what is being said is that the ecb is totally dependent on financial capital.
‒ the european central bank's annual report 2013 does not take seriously the monetary policy failure of the ecb. all forecasts of economic growth and inflation have failed miserably. all the measures and instruments used to control inflation and inject liquidity into the economy have failed. the ecb report also fails to address the political role of the central bank and does not question its legitimacy. the most surprising thing about all this is that, despite the huge failure, the report praises the ecb's role during the crisis and only refers to the "less positive" aspects of its performance. in the face of this political laundering, we vote against.
‒ the ecb was instrumental in the response to the financial crisis. with its quick reaction to a very difficult context, and with its monetary policy aiming to reduce the level of stress in the euro area financial markets and to restore investor confidence in the single currency. the ecb has shown a great willingness to do whatever was necessary to save the euro. more needs to be done to ensure that the ecb's behaviour is reflected in the wider economy and is responsible for driving economic growth and job creation.
‒ the european central bank (ecb) cut its key rates in may and again in november, reducing the rate on its main refinancing operations to 0.25. the european monetary authority has also decided to start buying up primary bonds, making a decisive contribution to reducing the longterm rates that member states have to pay when they issue bonds. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the ecb, and in particular the team of governors led by mario draghi, have done everything in their power to save the single european currency and bring stability to the euro area. i also believe that it is essential for the ecb to continue its debt-buying programme and pay greater attention to the stability of inflation, which is currently negative and affects the competitiveness of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the 2013 annual report of the european central bank (ecb). the recovery of economic activity in the eu remains incipient, with the euro area experiencing negative and extremely weak gdp growth for the first three quarters of 2014 for the second consecutive year in 2013, as well as a high unemployment rate, which is reaching levels that are undermining the stability of the euro area and undermining popular and political support for the european project. equally worrying is the continuing fall in the inflation rate in the euro area since 2011 and the possible risks of deflation. on the other hand, it is noted that although the ecb continues to take measures to maintain favourable financing conditions, the truth is that investment has not yet increased. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the conditions for a resumption of investment in the euro area, both public and private, are created. in this context, to welcome the ecb's reduction of its key interest rates and increase of its refinancing operations, as well as the measures announced in june 2014 to strengthen the functioning of the money transmission mechanism. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it congratulates the ecb on its monetary policy, even though low interest rates have not translated into economic growth/job creation. we are aware that the reduction in the cost of borrowing for member states has been accompanied by an increase in public debts, which in many cases reach values close to or above 100% of gdp, and although the ecb continues to take measures to maintain favourable financing conditions, it is important to ensure that this financing translates into an increase in investment (which has not occurred), especially reoriented from the public to the private sector. there is still a significant difference in the conditions for lending between smes and larger firms and the ecb's recent monetary policy measures are not minimising this problem but instead concentrating money in the banking sector and large (risk-free) firms. i believe, however, that the ecb is having a major impact on the markets and on the member states through its monetary policy.
‒ despite all the ecb's efforts to ease market tensions and save the euro, the social situation has worsened considerably, especially in countries in crisis (and subject to troika intervention). since the crisis began, two thirds of the member states have seen an increase in social inequalities. the risk of a recession at european level remains, as a result of unbalanced austerity measures and political crises, with obvious consequences for unemployment (especially among young people). but it is still a vote of confidence and hope for the ecb and for europe.
‒ this report presents a systematic and very detailed analysis of the activities carried out by the european central bank (ecb) in 2013, in particular with regard to the monetary policy instruments used by the ecb, its role in the 'troika', the exercise of its banking supervisory functions and measures to encourage banks to lend. i voted in favour of this report because i share a large part of the views expressed by the rapporteur on monetary policy and financial stability, and the economic growth forecasts for the coming years need to be interpreted with due caution. i also fully agree with the words of ecb president mario draghi on the flexibility of the stability and growth pact, on growth-friendly fiscal policies and tax relief, and on the need for a broad public investment programme. finally, i would like to highlight the efforts of the ecb in adopting measures to create favourable financing conditions for public and private investment, the adoption of innovative instruments, new communication strategies and the internal work of the member states with the aim of restoring investor confidence in the various economies.
‒ the ecb report 2013 is the most conclusive proof of the complete failure of the ecb's monetary policy. he failed to forecast economic growth and inflation. it has failed in all measures to control inflation and inject liquidity into the economy, whether in setting interest rates or in the various refinancing operations of the bank. nothing is said about the ecb's growing power, which goes far beyond the mandate conferred by the treaties. in other words, far more than controlling inflation, the ecb finances banking in the medium and long term and influences the policies of sovereign states in a decisive and illegitimate way. no suggestion is made to question the legitimacy of this institution. we do not understand and do not follow the report's praise of the ecb's policy and its optimism for the banking union, which represents another step towards the concentration of powers in the hands of a single institution, which both manages and supervises the eu's financial sector.
‒ the ecb report for 2013 is the clearest proof of the complete failure of the ecb's monetary policy. it failed to forecast economic growth and inflation and failed to take all measures to control inflation and inject liquidity into the economy. nothing is said about the ecb's growing power which goes far beyond the mandate conferred by the treaties. in other words, far more than controlling inflation, the ecb finances banking in the medium and long term and decisively and illegitimately influences the policies of sovereign states. we voted against it.
the rapporteur. madam president, i greet the commissioner and all my colleagues. a word of appreciation to all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have collaborated on these broad guidelines. we are talking about the 2016 budget of the european union and, more specifically, about the 94% of the budget that is dedicated to growth, that is dedicated to investment and that we also want to be dedicated to employment. in fact, the budget of the european union is mainly an investment budget, only 6% of it being administrative expenditure. it is a budget which has a significant added value in the european union. we want 2016 to be about what we call the three e's: jobs, business and entrepreneurship. employment and, above all, youth employment, and this means a commitment to education, to strengthening people's skills, to using european union funds and structural funds for this purpose, in particular the european social fund, not to mention programmes such as erasmus+, not to mention programmes such as the youth employment initiative, which we want to continue and which will have real results in the coming years. the second e is enterprises, and especially small and mediumsized enterprises. we must not forget that 99% of the companies in the european union are small and mediumsized enterprises and are the main employers. we need a favourable environment for small and mediumsized enterprises and we need to give priority to programmes such as cosme. entrepreneurship, because we need - it's the other e - also to support young people and all initiatives, all start-ups. we need entrepreneurship to have a place, a strength and also a favourable environment in the european union, and the question of research, horizon 2020 and also programmes that can help this aim, namely start-ups and also cosme, which we want to be used for this purpose, are directly linked to this objective. we have not forgotten the internal solidarity of the european union, social cohesion, territorial cohesion is fundamental, aid to the most deprived people is important, this internal solidarity must be given attention in the structural funds but also in programmes managed centrally by the european commission, such as the social innovation programme or the programme within it, such as the progress programme. let us not forget the external solidarity. the european union cannot forget its neighbours, and external solidarity, the neighbourhood policy, helping to prevent the deaths in the mediterranean, aid to ukraine, must be our concern, all with another objective, namely to have a secure europe. these general lines have one objective: to influence the commission proposal which will appear in may, also on the assumption that the commitments which have been made in terms of the multiannual financial framework, in terms of the payment plan, which must be respected, in terms of the commitments which have been made to the council, will be respected and, in this respect for the commitments, i am sure that we will be able to respond to the aspirations of the european union and its citizens.
madam president, the process of drawing up the budget of the european union is marked by a complex framework, where the voluntarism of the policies evident in the speeches is not matched by the level of contribution of the member states. on the 2016 budget we will not accept cuts in the framework programme for science and research. we reject the funds intended to feed the neoliberal and militarist policies of the european union. we advocate that this expenditure be redirected towards policies of social and territorial cohesion. policies to combat poverty and social exclusion are growing in the european union. we would like to see in the 2016 budget a genuine public investment programme at european level that complements national programmes. on the count of three and we propose three s's: social, solidarity and sustainability. we also think that a specific programme is warranted to compensate the countries which have been the victims of the troika's policies, which, as has been acknowledged, have been the source of a whole series of losses which have objectively harmed these economies.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her words and for her commitment to meeting our priorities, first of all, and also for her commitment to the issue of the payment plan, namely, to have her resolution in 2015, this year. but we are talking about the 2016 budget, with the assumption that the commitments made will be taken into account, will be fulfilled. we are referring here to the juncker plan, which we hope will be resolved by june 2015, but there is a little confusion here, the european union budget will not give any grants or funds, the european union budget only guarantees and provides only a guarantee of 8 billion euros for a private investment of 315 billion euros. the objective of employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship is the top priority. we must never forget that employment has a very strong added value and social component, but if we look at the report we see that internal solidarity is present, social cohesion, territorial cohesion, the call for us to strengthen the programmes to combat poverty. all of this is referred to, the social, solidarity, sustainability, we can even say that in addition to the three e's, we also have these three s's. i would like to thank all my colleagues for all the considerations and for all the help they have given to this report. i am sure that with this report we will help the european union to remain competitive, it is that we sometimes forget that we are only 500 million - 7% of the world's population - but we have the largest economy on the planet and that these 500 million represent about 20% of the world's gdp and access to about 50% of social expenditure and it is with this aim of strengthening our competitiveness, of further strengthening our quality of life, that we intend to adopt these guidelines and succeed in the 2016 budget.
in writing. the budget is the financial instrument for implementing eu policies and guidelines. neoliberal policies and orientations, which generate asymmetries and inequalities, economic dependence and social backwardness, external interventionism, interference and militarism. we believe that a break with these policies is necessary, as well as a corresponding change in the budgetary options, which provides for a significant strengthening of the budget and its orientation towards the promotion of economic and social cohesion, peace, social progress and the protection of the environment. of course the majority of this parliament, and in particular the right wing and the social democrats, are not prepared for this break and change. and that is reflected in this report. it is worth highlighting some of the proposals we have put forward which have unfortunately been rejected: - the rejection of cuts in science (horizon 2020 programme); - criticism of austerity policies and the defence of an investment programme for jobs and sustainable development; - the rejection of the budgetary treaty and the european semester; - the creation of a programme of support for countries whose continued participation in the euro has proved unsustainable, in the context of a negotiated exit of these countries; - the creation of an emergency plan of support for countries affected by the troika.
we note the importance of combating fraud and all kinds of irregularities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. we're seeing a decrease in the number of incidents, even though we're seeing an increase in the amount of money involved. it is important, however, to avoid the easy temptation to fall into sensationalism and create a criminal picture when, in reality, by rough numbers, 14 of the 15 000 irregularities have already been classified as non-fraudulent. only those who are on the ground can appreciate the complexity of all the application procedures for european funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the european union's own resources are quite another matter. in this area, the european union, like most countries, is a victim of the process of globalisation which it has created and which facilitates all sorts of schemes to avoid paying taxes.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr ponga referred here to the importance of mobilising aid for these countries and referred to various european union programmes which could and should be mobilised to support these countries. we agree. but it is a fact that today more than half of this international aid ends up returning to the donor countries in the form of debt repayment and servicing of these countries' external debt. and the question i want to ask you is whether you do not consider the urgent need to establish the cancellation of the debt of these countries, ending this sticking point, this bleeding of resources, in which aid arrives but immediately leaves again, to pay a debt, which has already been paid several times, but never stops growing.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the cooperative efforts of the countries affected and the international community, we have succeeded in reducing the number of new ebola infections in recent months. the european union has certainly played a very important role in this fight. but this fight is not over and we are facing the beginning of a new phase no less important. we need to sustain the effort to fight the disease that we want to get to zero infections. this requires the maintenance of financial support already committed, the continuity of technical and human resources on the ground and hard work to strengthen national health systems and local response structures. we must therefore continue the scientific efforts to develop a vaccine and support and involve the affected countries in the recovery of their economies, which have been badly affected. i believe, therefore, that this is not the time to be passive, since this would lead to even greater loss of human life. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i am grateful to the honourable member for the question he has put to me, and i believe that in addition to the human and technical resources we must make available to these countries and to the places where infections are found, we must also point to the path of education. educating the local population is also part of this. it is obvious that without a complete and constant follow-up of the local population on the issues of hygiene, on the treatment, on the handling of the dead, without this obviously we have got nowhere and the outbreak continues to persist.
the sense of relief at the apparent containment of the ebola epidemic should not slow down the necessary vigilance, let alone forget about this problem. it is time to welcome and thank all the international help and let me highlight the giant example of a small country - cuba - which alone has sent more doctors and nurses to the affected countries than all the other western countries combined. but the big question remains: tackling the root causes that have been at the root of the spread of ebola. the revenues from the imf and the world bank, their famous adjustment plans, have devastated the already fragile health infrastructure in these countries, devastated public health services and beyond, creating a situation of inability to cope with the progression of the epidemic. it is necessary to break with this submission. to expose the hypocrisy of a certain international aid, where more than half of the resources go back to the donors to pay off debt and debt service. we need to end this stick. the cancellation of the external debt of these countries is therefore first and foremost a question of justice.
in writing. at a time when it is crucial to move forward with the normalisation of relations between the eu and cuba, we would like to welcome the example of cuba and its humanitarian policy and cooperation with the peoples of the world. this small country alone has sent more doctors and nurses to ebola-affected countries than all the other western countries combined. it was ban ki moon himself who praised the example of cuba, while the director-general of the world health organisation, margaret chan, praised the role of the alba countries in the fight against ebola, in particular cuba and venezuela. this is how you see which countries are really defending human rights.
mr president, two telegraph notes on the european council. about the energy. what reality has shown, and is showing with increasing acuteness, is the need for public control of this strategic sector, energy production and distribution. only in this context will efficiency, sustainability and the social dimension of energy policy be more than just fancy words to hide the real increase in the bill of households and companies and the increase in the fabulous profits of the economic groups that have taken over this sector. groups that will be the major beneficiaries of the strategic investment plan as it is designed. it's about the ukraine. the proposal by the president of the european commission on the european army, which i did not want to repeat here today, shows how the deepening of the exploitation and oppression of the peoples, which we already knew was accompanied by the concentration of power in supranational bodies outside their democratic control, is also associated with the aggressive and militarist impulse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. he will be irrevocably defeated.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the epp believes that the european semester should aim to increase jobs, promote growth and improve investment. these designs should be underpinned by a market economy model with strong social concerns, thus ensuring sustainable growth, so as to pass on to the next generation better job opportunities, rather than a heavy inheritance, by holding them accountable for debts they did not commit. that is why we have been committed from the very beginning to defending three fundamental pillars: investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. in the field of employment and social affairs, it is important to remember that only by promoting reproductive investment will we be stimulating sustainable job creation that will enable real investment in human capital, professional mobility, research and innovation, which are essential to expanding the economic potential of the european union and thus bringing prosperity to the people of europe. it is essential that we continue to focus on measures to combat youth unemployment, without forgetting longterm unemployment. young people will be the engine of the levers of our economy, and europe, all of us, owe them that. measures are urgently needed to enable work and family life to be balanced, and lifelong learning and dual education are also encouraged. special attention must continue to be paid to the outermost regions, the less developed regions, if we are to have real social and territorial cohesion. member states also have to do their part by eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens and red tape that discourage entrepreneurship, self-employment, the start-up of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be the catalysts for economic growth, innovation, employment and social inclusion. we must also mobilise all the means to continue this drive for european prosperity.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. as expected, he continues to advocate austerity, structural reforms, particularly in the labour market and the privatisation of companies and public services, calling into question equal access to social rights won after decades of struggle. this is totally unacceptable, because in this moment of crisis, this economic governance prevents countries from intervening with redistributive policies to help those most in need and to prevent the collapse of aggregate consumption. economic governance and the european semester are a way of tying countries to the neoliberal agendas of the european union, in the service of the big economic interests. they prevent countries from being able to decide their collective future in a sovereign way, forcing them to watch with their arms tied as their economies are destroyed. we cannot accept this passively and we will do everything to break with this monetary dictatorship.
mr president, many thanks to the eu presidency and to the three commissioners for coming to talk with us in parliament. our message is similar. of course we want to have real recovery with job creation, but we also want to move to a new growth model which is greener, smarter and with social inclusion. that is why we need a much better policy mix. regarding reforms, yes they are needed, but these reforms should be focusing on growth potential, on sustainability and also on reducing social inequalities. we can be sure that the critical factor to make a real change in the situation will be investment, and investment paving the way for quality jobs. that is why we need these smart rules creating room to invest. i would say that this ‘triangle’ is positive, but it is not enough because we should have a kind of ‘square’. we need also to support european economic demand, and this requires reducing social inequalities in europe. i believe that the following priorities should be pushed forward throughout the cycle of the european semester: the annual growth survey, the country—specific recommendations, the upcoming discussion on the economic and employment guidelines – which has already been presented by the commission and on which we are preparing our position – and, last but not least, the new phase of the europe 2020 strategy. i would like to conclude by saying something on the word ‘convergence’, because commissioner dombrovskis and commissioner thyssen underlined this. indeed, if you want all member states to have a real opportunity to move in this direction, to use this policy mix, we need to complete and rebalance the economic and monetary union.
i must confess, mr president, that i did not want to believe the commissioner's words, and i find it difficult to believe her, when she says that the proposals now being put forward for the european semester are based on sound economic analysis and impact assessments. i would say that if there is one thing on which they are not based it is on results and impacts, because if that were the case there would have to be a complete reversal of the recommended policies. because the results, commissioner, are that inequalities have increased, that the economies of the periphery are crushed, that debts are unsustainable, that structural reforms are nothing but adjustment through wages and the destruction of the welfare state. commissioner, no, they didn't look at the results or do any sound economic analysis. and that is why the commission itself has put some of the countries which have been such good students, such as portugal, under close surveillance. commissioner, how are the same policies now going to produce different results? commissioner, the problem is austerity.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the european budgetary adjustment has not worked. on the contrary, the policies of the past six years have led to huge losses of investment and wealth. the trail of unemployment and poverty will take a long time to recover. today, europe has become the sick man of the world, with anemic growth and historic economic and social inequalities, both within and between its member states. in contrast to its predecessor, it must be acknowledged that the current european commission under jean-claude juncker is beginning to show signs of recognising the problem and wanting to put forward solutions. these are positive signs, but they are not enough. the change in the agenda cannot be merely symbolic. the commission will have to be much more competent in the management of economic governance in the context of the european semester. the commission must take the lead in this economic governance, in the recovery agenda, in the convergence agenda. the trends of recent years must be reversed urgently. the year 2015 is a critical year in this respect. citizens must feel this change to regain confidence. the components of the agenda are there in the commission proposal, but what matters is how they are put into practice. the socialist group would have liked to have gone further in its recommendations. however, on each of the subjects, the position we are going to vote on is clear. it is important to recognise the centrality of investment, and the juncker fund is a positive development. but it will have to contribute not only to reviving growth but also to correcting regional employment disparities. the selection of the beneficiary projects should ensure a positive impact in the most devastated regions. parliament called for an urgent review of the content of structural reforms and for a careful assessment of their impact on competitiveness, but also on social and employment levels. as regards economic governance, fiscal policies must contribute to the recovery. the countries with room for manoeuvre should use it, and the countries in the process of adjustment must be able to use the flexibility provided for in the stability pact. it is important to protect strategic investment and maintain social cohesion. six years of bad policy. they are provoking reactions of rejection of europe, which is seen in several countries as a serious problem. we must be aware of this reality and act before it is too late.
mr president, the european semester is just another part of the institutional architecture of the european union which attacks the political and economic sovereignty of the countries by imposing budgetary restrictions on the very organs of national sovereignty. all in the name of one ultimate goal: the stability of the euro. it is now the rule that the report of the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament, year after year, tries to square the circle in this process. i mean, try to make the impossible seem possible. but the truth is that no matter how much the text is twisted, no matter how much the word 'social' is used in it, economic policies which aim to curb the expenditure of countries, cutting back on the social functions of the state, privatising public resources, promoting redundancies and making labour costs cheaper - we are all amazed by this - cannot simultaneously respond to social objectives. let us see what concrete measures the council and the european commission are putting into practice on employment. it is said that employment systems are still rigid in many countries, that derogations from collective bargaining are necessary, that wages must be aligned with productivity. but it couldn't be any other way. commissioner moscovici came to tell us which countries were behaving badly and which were behaving well. my country, portugal, is already in an excessive state of imbalance, which probably means that it is behaving badly, although it has behaved well and has implemented all the measures which have now led precisely to the increase in unemployment and the increase in public debt. and how is this process really different from the troika? no one knows, we do not know, but we all know which political parties and groups support and legitimize this process.
the european union and its institutions have been adopting measures and procedures which are seen as reflecting an intelligent reading of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the main measure of the effectiveness of these measures is their impact on the european semester, i.e. on the guidelines for the budgetary policy of the member states, with a particular focus on the preparation of the national budgets for 2016. in this context, in addition to an intelligent reading of the budgetary treaty, an intelligent reading of what has been called the structural reforms associated with the budgetary procedure is crucial. the european union has failed to link financial reforms and economic reforms in a synergistic way. the architecture of economic and financial union must be completed as a matter of priority and the range of so-called structural reforms extended. reforming the labour market and reducing the scope for public policy intervention is not enough to ensure fiscal consolidation, debt reduction and growth in the economy and employment. deep reforms are needed in the justice, health, education and economic specialisation systems, not through financial cuts but through strategic choices and efficient allocation of the resources needed to make the context favourable to growth and employment. *** and
‒ the content of this diploma is essentially technical, stemming from the need to adapt the pre-lisbon comitology regime to the post-lisbon delegated and implementing acts regimes under the common rules for imports from third countries, and a new version of the same regulation was deemed necessary. this is a technical document regulating the safeguard and surveillance instruments applied to imports of products from a limited number of countries (azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan (countries which are not full members of the wto), the new legal formulation excluding countries which have since joined the organisation in its original form, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
‒ the commission has identified some errors that need to be corrected in regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the content of these proposals consists mainly of technical corrections. the safeguard and surveillance instruments are thus defined and can be applied to imports of products, including coal and steel, but excluding textiles, which are subject to a separate regulation. the regulation applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. i voted in favour.
‒ this report aims to reform a set of regulations in the commercial field (omnibus i and omnibus ii). the majority of these are technical corrections, which aim to define safeguard and surveillance instruments that can be applied to imports of products, including coal and steel, and to update the annex. however, it is worth recalling our opposition to the omnibus i and omnibus ii regulations. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, the common commercial policy becomes an exclusive competence of the eu, with states losing the power to conclude, in accordance with their specific interests, bilateral trade agreements with other countries or regional blocs. limiting the sovereignty of states in the field of their trade policies. decisions on trade agreements are now being made in the interests of the major european powers. although this is an eminently technical report, our vote is inseparable from the above-mentioned position of principle.
‒ this is a purely technical matter. this proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 625/2009 of 7 july 2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question did not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and that, as regards the codification of the provisions of the earlier acts unchanged by those amendments, the proposal was simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because this regulation sets out safeguard and surveillance instruments which can be applied to imports of products, including coal and steel. the regulation applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. as regards the amendments included in the recast, the main one concerns the updating of the annex in order to remove the countries which have since become members of the world trade organisation, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive amendments beyond those identified as such in the proposal and that the proposal is confined to the mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive amendments, there would be no reason to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ after 1 december 2009, a legislative and procedural harmonisation exercise was carried out to ensure that the previous comitology and ad hoc decision-making processes in the area of trade policy were in line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts provided for in the lisbon treaty. however, during this exercise, some errors were detected that needed to be corrected. in order to incorporate some substantial changes, it was deemed necessary to convert the codification into a recast, as is well explained in the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common rules' in the definition of the concept of 'common rules' and to extend the scope of the concept of 'common rules' to include the use of the term 'common rules' in the definition of the concept of 'common rules'. as the proposal contains mainly technical corrections, i shall vote in favour of it.
‒ since 1987, all acts must be codified at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen. in order to ensure clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ i support the report by mr andrzej duda on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro which will (for reasons of clarity and rationality) codify regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007. the new proposed regulation will replace the various acts and preserve the content of the consolidated acts in full. the act in question follows the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 between the commission, the council and parliament which establishes an accelerated procedure which can be used for the rapid adoption of consolidated acts.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the codification in plain language of regulation (eu) 2015/... of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, on the opening of fishery products originating in montenegro to be imported into the union at a reduced rate of customs duty within the limits of tariff quotas. it's a technical degree.
‒ the report analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and concludes that the proposal in question is effectively a pure and simple codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. i voted in favour.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify the regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. the commission has decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. that is why we abstained, which takes account of the historical and political context of this whole process (the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the role of the eu and nato powers in the process), which we have already expressed on other occasions.
‒ this is a purely technical matter. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of montenegro. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report focuses on the objective of codifying legislative documents, i.e. simplifying union legislation by introducing only technical amendments and not substantive ones. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of this technical amendment which does not alter the content of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it merely corrects and codifies the existing texts and does not lead to any substantive changes.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the codification of council regulation (eec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. it is based on the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 which introduces an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts. the main aim is to unify in a coherent manner the system of safeguard measures contained in this agreement, which is subject to the rules of codecision. for all of the above, you deserve my vote in favour.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. since 1987, all acts have to be codified at the latest after 10 amendments in order to make eu law more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand. in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. however, it is important to stress that the association and stabilisation agreement with the republic of montenegro requires the amendment of its labour legislation, the electoral law, the end of the sovereign mechanisms for protecting the economy and productive activity, destroying smes and small and medium-sized farmers, the implementation of privatisations, neo-liberal measures that are contrary to the interests of the montenegrins.
‒ i have approved the consolidation, in its simplest form, of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and mixtures of wheat with rye, bran, bran and other residues, which has not been substantially amended. it's a technical degree.
‒ the report analyses the proposal for a regulation aimed at codifying council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, bran and other residues, which is in fact a mere codification without any change in the substance of the acts to which it relates. i voted in favour.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify the regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain eu tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, bran and other residues. the commission has decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. regardless of our position in principle on the substance of the matter, in view of the technical nature of this amendment, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical matter. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, bran and other residues. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ at its meeting on 14 october 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and mixtures of wheat and rye, bran, bran and other residues. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it merely corrects and codifies existing texts and does not substantially alter them.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. ‒ on 1 april 1987 the commission decided to instruct its services to codify all legislative acts when there are no more than ten amendments. subsequently, on 20 december 1994, the council and the commission concluded an interinstitutional agreement on an accelerated working method with a view to the rapid adoption of consolidated acts. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, germ and other residues. i therefore agree with this report which will ensure greater legal certainty and security in this area.
‒ i understand and agree with the process of codification, in order to promote greater clarity of the normative acts, arising from the need to take account of the different amendments which have been made to them if there are more than ten, and these having been subject to scrutiny by the ordinary legislative procedure of the respective time when they occurred. this codification process should not, by its nature, alter the content of the act to which it relates and should be reduced to a purely technical process, and it is in this spirit that i am voting on this dossier today.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and mixtures of wheat and rye, bran, bran and other residues. since 1987, all acts have to be codified at the latest after 10 amendments in order to make eu law more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand. in order to ensure clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and mixtures of wheat and rye, bran, bran and other residues. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for ordinary citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the proposal in question is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes, and we therefore voted in favour of it.
‒ i have approved the consolidation in plain language of council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the importation into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95 - the proposal at issue is merely a consolidation in plain language of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
the report analyses the proposal for a regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 779/98 on the importation into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95, which the advisory group was able to reach a consensus on, and which is confined to a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify the regulation establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts and suspending certain concessions. the commission has decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. despite the essentially technical nature of this proposal, the vote of our group (against), which we follow, was weighted by the persistence of a situation of illegal occupation by turkey of part of the territory of cyprus.
‒ this is a purely technical matter. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify union legislation by codifying it. this document does not substantially change the content of the report as transcribed in the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 14 october 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is limited to corrections and additions to existing documents, without any substantive changes to them.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
the purpose of this proposal is to consolidate council regulation (ec) no 1506/1998 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions. as this is a purely technical matter, aimed at the mere codification of existing texts and not involving any major changes, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
‒ i understand and agree with the process of codification, in order to promote greater clarity of the normative acts, arising from the need to take account of the different amendments which have been made to them if there are more than ten, and these having been subject to scrutiny by the ordinary legislative procedure of the respective time when they occurred. this codification process should not, by its nature, alter the content of the act to which it relates and should be reduced to a purely technical process, and it is in this spirit that i am voting on this dossier today.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. since 1987, all acts have to be codified at the latest after 10 amendments in order to make eu law more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand. in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. however, we draw attention to the fact that turkey is illegally occupying part of the territory of cyprus and we take this opportunity to demand that the eu take a firm stand in defence of the lawfulness of this matter.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier for citizens to understand. we voted against once it refers to turkey, a country which illegally occupies part of the territory of cyprus, denying the cypriot people their most basic rights. furthermore, the original agreement itself does not recognise the republic of cyprus and allows for illegal exports from the occupied part of cyprus to the eu.
in writing. - i have approved the consolidation in plain language of council regulation (ec) no 1506/1998 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions. it's a technical degree.
the report analyses a proposal for a regulation which codifies council regulation (ec) no 1506/1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions, and which is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify the regulation establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts and suspending certain concessions. the commission has decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. despite the essentially technical nature of this proposal, it weighed heavily on the vote of our group (against), which, like the other report on the import of products originating in turkey, followed the persistence of a situation of illegal occupation by turkey of part of the territory of cyprus.
‒ this is a purely technical matter. the purpose of this proposal is to consolidate council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it.
‒ on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, i voted in favour of the codification of this regulation on the suspension of certain concessions concerning the importation into the union of agricultural products of turkish origin.
‒ at its meeting on 14 october 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1506/1998 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it only proposes to correct the codification of the existing texts, without substantially altering what was previously agreed.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
‒ i understand and agree with the process of codification, in order to promote greater clarity of the normative acts, arising from the need to take account of the different amendments which have been made to them if there are more than ten, and these having been subject to scrutiny by the ordinary legislative procedure of the respective time when they occurred. this codification process should not, by its nature, alter the content of the act to which it relates and should be reduced to a purely technical process, and it is in this spirit that i am voting on this dossier today.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. since 1987, all acts have to be codified at the latest after 10 amendments in order to make eu law more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand. in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. this cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. however, we draw attention to the fact that turkey is illegally occupying part of the territory of cyprus and we take this opportunity to demand that the eu take a firm stand in defence of the lawfulness of this matter.
‒ the purpose of this report is to consolidate council regulation (ec) no 1506/1998 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession to turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier for citizens to understand. the proposal is merely a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. however, we voted against it because it is a negotiation with turkey, involving the territories of cyprus illegally occupied by that country, a situation which clearly confronts the rights of the cypriot people.
‒ the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. this decision was voted in favour by me in favour of the enhancement of the efficiency of the agreement, which was considered in 2011 to be achieved through a process of amending the agreement. one of the most important changes introduced in the new agreement is a 'clear overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources' consistent with my conviction, as a permanent member of the envi commission, of the need to preserve marine ecosystems. secondly, the new version of the agreement establishes 'common management of fisheries through multiannual management plans, the establishment of restricted fishing zones and the collection and dissemination of data', together with the fight against illegal fishing, the pursuit of maximum sustainable yield, blue growth and an approach to fisheries that takes into account the ecosystem perspective, including, in my view, the need to introduce sanctions and dispute settlement mechanisms.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. in 2013, a process of amending the gfcm agreement was initiated, which revised the structure and content of the current gfcm agreement in order to bring it into line with the modern instruments of the gfcm. the main changes introduced are a clearer explanation of the objectives and principles underlying the gfcm agreement; a better definition of the gfcm's functions, namely the promotion of common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fishing restricted areas and the collection and dissemination of data; sanctions in cases of non-compliance by members and non-members and the resolution of disputes.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), established within the framework of the fao in 1949, entered into force in 1952. the european community became part of the gfcm in 1998. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation whose objective is to promote the conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources. the gfcm contracting parties have agreed to amendments to the agreement, which are basically aimed at bringing it into line with the latest developments in the general framework of regional fisheries management organisations. the main changes introduced are:- a clearer explicit statement of the objectives of the gfcm (biological, economic, social, environmental) and of terms which are necessary for a correct interpretation of the agreement;- a clearer definition of the functions of the gfcm, which includes the promotion of common management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fishing restricted areas, the collection and dissemination of data;- the establishment of sanctions in cases of non-compliance with the agreement;- the establishment of dispute settlement mechanisms for disputes that may arise between the contracting parties. the rapporteur proposes that parliament should approve these amendments. we voted in favour.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), in accordance with the provisions of article xiv of the fao constitution, was approved by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952. the agreement was amended and approved in 1963, 1976 and 1997. the european community acceded to the gfcm on 16 june 1998 by decision 98/416/ec. the mediterranean and black sea states which are members of the eu are also parties to the agreement. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfm) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. this agreement has been negotiated since 2013.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was adopted by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952, with several amendments made regularly. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposal is very useful in clarifying the objectives and principles underlying the gfcm agreement, and in setting a clear overall objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. i also think it is essential that provisions be made for the establishment of measures/sanctions to deal with cases of non-compliance by members and non-members, and that mechanisms be set up for the settlement of disputes which may arise between the contracting parties.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was adopted by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952. the european community acceded to the gfcm on 16 june 1998. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. in 2013, following a performance review completed in 2011, a process to amend the gfcm agreement was initiated in order to clarify the objectives, functions and efficiency of the gfcm. the amended agreement revises the structure and content of the current agreement to bring it into line with modern rfmo instruments, and sets a clear global objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. considering that the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and the protection of marine ecosystems play a key role in the framework of blue growth and sustainable development, i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the conclusion of the amended agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in that i support the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), as it is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. the amendment to the agreement now proposed has been negotiated with the contracting parties in the gfcm and the council has authorised the commission to negotiate on behalf of the union on matters falling within the union's competence. i agree with the need to revise the structure and content of the current agreement to bring it into line with the modern instruments of the rfmo, including a clearer explanation of the objectives and principles underlying the gfcm agreement, a better definition of the functions of the gfcm, provisions on sanctions and dispute settlement.
‒ this is essentially an update of the agreement with a view to more effective conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources in its area of application.
‒ i welcome and vote in favour of this recommendation on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, as it introduces clarifying amendments to its objectives and principles relating to the sustainability of marine resources. the amendments also included a better definition of the scope of the gfcm's functions, sanctioning provisions for cases of non-compliance and a mechanism to facilitate dispute settlement. like the rapporteur, i believe that these amendments will achieve the objective of improving the sustainable use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea, and will also ensure the conservation and protection of marine ecosystems.
‒ the proposal for a council decision is an important document because it clarifies the general principles underlying the general fisheries commission agreement for the mediterranean, integrating the pillars of sustainable development into the marine environment. the new agreement promotes the common management of fisheries through coordinated plans aimed at the principle of precautionary management based on ecosystems, reducing landings, combating illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and creating marine protected areas. i shall, however, dwell on one concept, so that it can be properly applied in the operationalization of this document. maximum sustainable income is not a goal, but a limit. in this respect, the new common fisheries policy states that catch levels must be maintained to ensure that the water resources are above the level that promotes maximum sustainable yield. in other words, fishing effort will have to be conservative, i.e. less than what promotes maximum sustainable yield.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), in accordance with the provisions of article xiv of the fao constitution, was approved by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952. the european community acceded to the gfcm on 16 june 1998 by decision 98/416/ec. the mediterranean and black sea states which are members of the eu are also parties to the agreement. in view of the mutual interest in the development and proper use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea, and in view of the guarantees regarding the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources in the application area and the protection of marine ecosystems, we have nothing to object to.
‒ this item is concerned with the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, mep, at the request of the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of justice of greece and communicated in plenary on 28 january 2015, in the context of the ongoing e2010/3844 procedure before the criminal court of thessaloniki. taking into account the relevant legal provisions, case law and the report of the committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of this member, in agreement with the majority of members of the european parliament, considering that theodoros zagorakis is accused of a breach of his physical integrity and of failing to comply with safety standards at the workplace as president of paok football club, and considering that there is no reason to assume that the legal proceedings are aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member, given that they were initiated several years before the start of the member's term of office, in line with the recitals of the european parliament's decision of 11 march 2015.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the necessary powers to deal with the matter. the member is accused of violating the physical integrity and not complying with the safety standards at the workplace. the legal action relates to the work accident suffered in may 2010 by an employee of paok football club at the club's stadium in thessaloniki. theodoros zagorakis is the defendant in his capacity as president and legal representative of the club. the alleged infringement has no apparent connection with the status of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but only with his duties as president of paok football club. consequently, the action does not concern any opinion or vote expressed in the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. it is therefore considered that there is no reason to assume that the judicial action is aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member, given that it was initiated several years before the start of the member's term of office and therefore the parliamentary immunity should be lifted. we voted in favour.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. this request is made by the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of justice of greece, who has requested the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a possible conviction for an alleged infringement. theodoros zagorakis is charged with assault and breach of the safety regulations at the workplace. the charge in question is related to the work accident suffered on 13 may 2010 by an employee of paok football club at the club's stadium in thessaloniki and is directed against theodoros zagorakis in his capacity as president and legal representative of the club. since the alleged infringement has no obvious connection with the situation of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, i have therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
i voted in favour of this request. the legal action relating to the work-related accident suffered on 13 may 2010 by an employee of paok football club at the club's stadium in thessaloniki is directed against theodoros zagorakis in his capacity as president and legal representative of the club, so that the alleged infringement has no obvious connection with the situation of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament and there is no reason to assume that the legal action is aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member, given that it was initiated several years before the start of the member's mandate.
‒ this is a matter of internal greek justice, unrelated to the status of theodoros zagorakis as a member of parliament.
‒ the member is accused of a breach of bodily integrity and of not complying with safety standards in the workplace and the related court action is related to the work accident suffered on 13 may 2010 by an employee of paok football club at the club's stadium in thessaloniki. the alleged infringement has no apparent connection with the status of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but only with his duties as president of paok football club. consequently, the action does not concern any opinion or vote expressed in the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament. it is therefore considered that there is no reason to assume that the legal action is aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member, given that it was initiated several years before the start of the member's term of office, and therefore the parliamentary immunity should be waived.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the necessary powers to deal with the matter. the member is accused of violating the physical integrity and not complying with the safety standards at the workplace. the related court action relates to the work accident suffered on 13 may 2010 by an employee of paok football club at the club's stadium in thessaloniki. theodoros zagorakis is the defendant in his capacity as president and legal representative of the club. the alleged infringement has no apparent connection with the status of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but only with his duties as president of paok football club. consequently, the action does not concern any opinion or vote expressed in the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. it is therefore considered that there is no reason to assume that the judicial action is aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member, given that it was initiated several years before the start of the member's term of office and therefore the parliamentary immunity should be lifted. we voted yes.
‒ sergei stanishev is accused of having lost, in the exercise of his functions as prime minister of bulgaria, 7 documents containing information constituting state secrets and of having transmitted them in breach of the established rules, since the transfer was not duly recorded in the register of classified information of the bulgarian council of ministers. sergei stanishev himself expressed his consent to the initiation of a criminal case against him that was initiated in 2010, but had to be suspended because he had assumed office as a deputy in the national assembly and resumed later, after stanishev had expressed his consent to the continuation of the case, which led to the initiation of a criminal case of an administrative nature. however, when sergei stanishev was elected to the post of mep in may 2014, the court ordered the case to be suspended, due to the new type of immunity that the person concerned now enjoyed. the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity came through the attorney general of the republic of bulgaria. i have no objection to this request, since the acts alleged have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
‒ sergei stanishev, now a member of the european parliament, is accused of having lost, in the exercise of his functions as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria, seven documents containing information which constituted state secrets within the meaning of the bulgarian law on the protection of classified information. whereas:- the alleged acts have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by sergei stanishev, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union; the investigations leading up to the trial of sergei stanishev were initiated long before the applicant became a member of the european parliament; - i know . sergei stanishev, first as prime minister and then as a deputy to the national assembly, submitted two written statements to the speaker of the national assembly in which he stated that he agreed to the initiation of criminal proceedings against himself; - parliament did not find any sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the criminal action was based on the intention to harm the member's political activity; we voted in favour of this report which considers that parliamentary immunity should be waived.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor general of the republic of bulgaria has submitted a request to the sofia public prosecutor's office for authorisation to open judicial proceedings against sergei stanishev in respect of the offence the criminal framework of which is provided for in article 358 (1) in conjunction with article 26 (1) of the bulgarian criminal code. the alleged acts have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by sergei stanishev, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ i voted in favour of this request, as the events took place before the inauguration as a member of the european parliament, as sergei stanishev is accused of having lost, in the exercise of his functions as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria, seven documents containing information constituting a state secret within the meaning of the bulgarian law on the protection of classified information (hereinafter referred to as pic law), the conduct of which constitutes a crime punishable under the bulgarian criminal code (violation of information constituting a state secret and of classified information of foreign countries).
‒ this is a matter of internal bulgarian justice, unrelated to sergei stanishev's status as a member of parliament.
‒ sergei stanishev is accused of having lost, in the exercise of his functions as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria, seven documents containing information constituting state secrets. more specifically, sergei stanishev is accused of having transmitted the said documents in breach of the established rules, since the transfer was not duly registered in the register of classified information of the bulgarian council of ministers. the alleged offence was committed when sergei stanishev was prime minister of bulgaria and only in the context of that office, and the investigation of the case was initiated long before he was elected to the post of member of the european parliament. it follows that the criminal proceedings brought against sergei stanishev are in no way connected with his current mandate as a member of the european parliament.
‒ sergei stanishev is accused of having lost, in the exercise of his functions as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria, seven documents containing information constituting state secrets within the meaning of the bulgarian law on the protection of classified information in the period from 4 november 2005 to 27 july 2009. more specifically, sergei stanishev is accused of having transmitted the said documents in breach of the established rules, since the transfer was not duly registered in the register of classified information of the bulgarian council of ministers. since the alleged acts have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by sergei stanishev, and do not constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, we do not oppose the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ i congratulate mr josé manuel fernandes on his report on the political guidelines for the 2016 budget, for which he will be responsible in the european parliament. i share the priority of the 3 e's: employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship. i congratulate you for clearly and unequivocally defining the priorities for the community budget. i sincerely hope that the council will not limit the financial resources in such a way as to diminish their real significance. i particularly agree with the emphasis it places on the serious problem of youth unemployment, support for smes, the strengthening of internal solidarity and social, economic and territorial cohesion. and as a portuguese, i cannot help but stress that the rapporteur-general for the budget and, at the same time, the rapporteur for the juncker plan in parliament is a portuguese.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, section iii, as it stresses the role of the european budget in promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union, territorial cohesion and competitiveness. the eu budget should also play an important role in providing a funding base for the juncker plan for growth and the efsi, which aims to boost investment in europe. i share the position expressed in the resolution that agencies are important as an integral part of the eu administration and that they need to be given an adequate level of resources, otherwise european policies will be poorly implemented. the resolution also stresses the need for a new and more serious approach to payment appropriations in the face of the accumulation of delays in the payment of invoices.
in writing. ‒ employment, enterprises and entrepreneurship to promote growth and economic, social and territorial cohesion are priority issues. both the eu budget and the juncker plan should help to revive the economy and boost job creation. the existence of a favourable business environment and the development of an entrepreneurial culture, including decent jobs, can restore the role of the more than 20 million smes, representing 99% of all enterprises in the union, as the main job creators. eu cohesion policy has been useful in supporting public investment in vital economic areas. the community budget must continue to play a crucial role in reducing disparities between europe's regions by ensuring investment in the areas where it is most needed. this internal solidarity must also be accompanied by external solidarity, based on the promotion of european values and respect for the commitments made. the commission should present a payment plan to address the recurring problem of outstanding invoices, which at the end of 2014 reached an unprecedented amount of eur 24,7 billion.
‒ the eu budget process is marked by a complex framework, in which the voluntarism of the speeches with selfless references to employment, investment, growth does not find the right match at the level of the eu budget. more specifically, regarding the 2016 budget and what this report tells us (or doesn't tell us) about it: - the cuts to the horizon 2020 framework programme are unacceptable, after all the propaganda around science and research; - the scenario is still that of 'business as usual'; a budget geared to fuelling the eu's neoliberal and militarist policies. we are in favour of a clear reorientation of expenditure towards policies of economic, social and territorial cohesion. policies to combat poverty and social exclusion. a genuine public investment programme, with resources amounting to at least 1% of eu gdp. a commitment to employment, social progress, environmental protection. a specific programme to compensate countries that have been victims of troika policies. a programme to frame a prepared exit from the euro, from countries whose existence has become unsustainable. these are some of the amendments we proposed to the report which were rejected by the majority. we voted against it.
‒ economic growth, internal and external solidarity and respect for commitments should guide the draft eu budget for 2016. i agree with the priorities outlined in this document which gives the guidelines for the 2016 eu budget. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the eu budget is predominantly an investment budget, with a strong leverage effect and is a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and employment, and is crucial for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union. this resolution sets out the political priorities for the 2016 budget. it therefore considered it imperative that all commitments in the multiannual financial framework (mff) be fully respected, and that the eu budget should present a balance between revenue and expenditure and definitively resolve certain problems, notably the invoices to be settled at the end of the year, the budgeting of the special mff instruments and the delay in implementing the new operational programmes under cohesion policy. it also stresses the support that must be given to smes and calls for legislative simplification, a reduction in bureaucracy and the use of the available financial instruments. finally, it reaffirmed the need to reform the eu's own resources system, the current inadequacies of which are causing serious deadlock in the budgetary negotiations, and to make every effort to create synergies not only between the investment plan and the eu budget but also with national budgets. i voted in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include the possibility of a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is therefore important that the commission target such programmes and instruments for growth in the context of the 2016 draft budget. at the same time, i also consider it of the utmost importance that a solid payment plan be drawn up and implemented to reduce the level of outstanding settlement invoices at the end of the year so that this situation does not jeopardise the receipt by the recipients of the european funds due to them.
in writing. ‒ we all agree that it should be a key objective of the eu to get back on a path that leads to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for all member states. it is equally important that this path be based on internal and external solidarity. however, despite all the good intentions in theory about boosting the economy and curbing unemployment, it will be necessary to translate them into concrete measures that will stop the austerity and the consequent social and human crisis once and for all. the reality will not change unless the way politics is done changes.
‒ the procedure for the general budget of the european union for 2016 will be a highly anticipated one, given the current context of financial constraints and what this budget is expected to provide, in complementarity with national budgets, in particular with regard to job creation and the creation of conditions for increased competitiveness and dynamism of economies, based on better knowledge and greater environmental sustainability. the pursuit of these objectives must be accompanied by adequate financial resources and i am concerned about the backlog in payments of previously committed commitments, as evidenced in the 2015 budget negotiations, and on the other hand i hope that the leverage effects in the investment plan will be truly substantial, because this will be the only way we can justify the recent budgetary reallocations.
‒ the eu budget process is marked by a complex framework where the voluntarism of policies in the speeches is not matched by the level of member states' contributions. on the 2016 budget. we do not understand the cuts in the framework programme for science and research. we reject all funds intended to feed the neoliberal and militarist policies of the eu. we advocate that this expenditure be redirected towards policies of social and territorial cohesion. policies to combat poverty and social exclusion are growing in the european union. we would like to see in the 2016 budget a genuine public investment programme at european level that complements national programmes. on the count of three and we propose three s's: social, solidarity and sustainability. we also think that a specific programme is warranted to compensate the countries which have been the victims of the troika's policies, which, as has been acknowledged at the highest level by various personalities, have been disastrous for these economies. that is the aim of our amendments, which i hope will be adopted.
in writing. ‒ we are against cuts in the framework programme for science and research. we reject all funds intended to feed the neoliberal and militarist policies of the eu. we advocate that this expenditure be redirected towards policies of social and territorial cohesion and policies to combat poverty and social exclusion, a social scourge for many people in the eu countries. we advocated a specific programme to compensate the countries which were victims of the troika's policies, which, as was acknowledged at the highest level by various personalities, was disastrous for these economies, and we therefore tabled amendments to that effect which, unfortunately, were rejected with the votes against, also by several portuguese members of parliament. we rejected the whole report.
‒ the protection of the eu's financial interests and the principle of sound financial management are basic and fundamental corollaries of a serious and responsible organisation of states. i believe that any misuse or fraudulent use of community taxpayers' money is detrimental to the interests of both the member states and the union as a whole. although the figures are not alarming from a statistical point of view for a union of this size, increased efforts are needed to combat fraud and corruption or any other type of activity detrimental to the financial interests of the union, whether in the collection of traditional own resources, the detection and reporting of irregularities, the control of expenditure and the application of sanctions. policy zero should be the guiding line! i would like to highlight the first eu anti-corruption report of 2014, which is a special tool for assessing and monitoring the fight against corruption, the role of olaf in monitoring irregular acts and the need for enhanced cooperation between member states and the commission in the adoption of measures and means to combat fraud.
‒ each member state contributes proportionally to the eu budget, thus representing an expression of unity and deepening european integration. the protection of financial interests and the principle of good administration increase citizens' confidence by ensuring that their money is used in a transparent manner. this report presents two proposals to strengthen existing measures to combat fraud, corruption, money laundering and other illicit activities affecting the financial interests of the union. this is where the commission and the member states must make every effort. the report notes that in 2013, 15 779 irregularities were notified to the commission, of which 14 170 were non-fraudulent and 1609 were fraudulent, involving a total amount of eur 2,14 billion, and 98% of the traditional own resources were collected without significant problems, with fraudulent irregularities representing 0,29% of the gross amount of the established octs (worth eur 61 million) and non-fraudulent irregularities representing 1,57% of the octs (worth eur 327,4 million).
‒ every year, the commission draws up a report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, including the latest information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. this report focuses on the detection and reporting of non-fraudulent and fraudulent irregularities in relation to expenditure and revenue (traditional own resources) of the eu budget. we agree that there is a need to establish a framework for cooperation between the different member states, with the aim of sharing experience and best practice. this can be an added value for the fight against corruption at the level of each country. however, we consider it negative that such a measure is seen as an embryo, serves to promote or falls within the broader objective of developing the so-called 'area of freedom, security and justice', in particular with a view to harmonising justice at eu level. we therefore reaffirm our reservations about the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, based on europol, eurojust and olaf.
‒ the fight against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union is essential if the eu's policies and financial interests are to be safeguarded. only close cooperation and coordination between the commission and the member states will be able to ensure effective protection of the financial interests of the union, and it is therefore imperative to strengthen such cooperation and coordination and to make them as effective as possible. the protection of the financial interests of the union requires the same level of vigilance in respect of both resources and expenditure. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this resolution concerns the 2013 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. the protection of the eu's financial interests and the principle of sound financial management should ensure that budget revenue and expenditure contribute to achieving the eu's priorities and objectives and to enhancing citizens' confidence. according to the report, in 2013 the commission was notified of 15779 irregularities, of which 1609 were fraudulent, involving a total amount of eur 2,14 billion, with a recovery rate for fraud of only 23,74%, below the average of 33,5% in the period 2008-2012. however, i am pleased that for the 2007-2013 programming period, administrative checks, on-the-spot checks and audits have allowed a fraud detection rate of 63%. finally, i welcome the encouragement for closer cooperation between the member states and the commission and for structured coordination between the managing authorities and the anti-fraud agencies in order to prevent and correct non-fraudulent irregularities and to combat fraud. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the introduction of a wide range of legal and administrative measures introduced by the committee since 2011. however, it also recognises that the lack of results in the fight against fraud is due not to a lack of regulation but to a lack of implementation of these measures. the commission must urgently take responsibility for the recovery of funds owed to the eu and must also improve the recovery process by making it faster, and the detection of these cases is also, on average, too long. the vat gap, for example, is continually high, leading to situations of tax evasion and fraud. finally, i consider the anti-fraud report to be a valuable tool in the fight against corruption. the efficiency of olaf (european anti-fraud office) needs to be improved urgently and the quality of its recommendations should be reviewed by the committee that oversees it.
‒ the european commission and the member states must work together in a coordinated way to combat corruption and any other fraud or illegal activity that is in any way harmful to the financial interests of the european union. in the current context of severe economic difficulties faced by the member states, the protection of the financial interests of the european union is of particular importance. it is therefore imperative that eu funds are managed properly and used as efficiently as possible.
‒ the protection of the eu's financial interests and the principle of sound financial management must be the guarantee of a sound and balanced budgetary policy, capable of pursuing the eu's priorities and objectives in a spirit of transparency and commitment to the interests of citizens. in this context, the fight against fraud and corruption, both by the european institutions and by the member states, is of particular importance and must be coordinated as a means of better protecting and managing the financial interests of europeans, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. i also believe, as does the rapporteur, that it is essential that the funds unduly paid out of the eu budget are recovered.
‒ we have noted the importance of combating fraud and all kinds of irregularities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. we're seeing a decrease in the number of incidents, even though we're seeing an increase in the amount of money involved. it is important, however, to avoid the easy temptation to fall into sensationalism and create a criminal picture when in reality, and in round figures, 14 of the 15 000 irregularities have already been classified as non-fraudulent. only those who are on the ground can appreciate the complexity of all the application procedures for european funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the european union's own resources are something else entirely. in this area, the eu, like most countries, is a victim of the processes of globalisation it has created, which facilitate all kinds of schemes to avoid paying taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this type of crime.
‒ every year, the european commission produces an own-initiative report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, which includes the latest information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. this report focuses on the detection and reporting of non-fraudulent and fraudulent irregularities in both expenditure and revenue (traditional own resources) of the eu budget. we agree that establishing a framework of cooperation between the different member states, aimed at sharing experiences and best practices, could be an added value for the fight against corruption carried out at the level of each country. however, we consider it to be a bad thing that such a measure is seen as an embryo, serves to promote or falls within the more general objective of developing the so-called 'area of freedom, security and justice', namely the harmonisation of justice at european level.
‒ i would like to stress the quality and thoroughness of mr tannock's report on montenegro's progress as a candidate country for accession to the european union. it is indisputable that montenegro is developing positively in many respects, which confirms the value of eu enlargement as a tool for enabling economic growth and consolidating democracy in the candidate countries. the report also highlights areas of concern, such as limitations on freedom of expression and the media, the poor functioning of various state institutions (such as parliament and the judiciary, among others). as i maintain a position of cautious reserve with regard to further enlargements (i believe that the eu still has some time to digest the latest enlargements), i shall abstain in the vote.
‒ i welcome the fact that montenegro is currently the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally closed negotiating chapters with the eu. however, the country must develop an impeccable record of the rule of law, a key precondition for eu membership, and of fulfilling the obligations of membership. the continuation of accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular in the field of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption, is essential, as is the reinforcement by the montenegrin government of the intra-institutional coordination and the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are a decisive test for the independence, efficiency and professionalism of the judiciary.
‒ the present motion for a resolution contains a broad set of considerations on the process of montenegro's integration into the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not forced to pay for the damage they have suffered. among others, special mention should be made of the intrusions into the economic, judicial and political system, the advanced guidelines on foreign and security policy, in particular the country's accession to nato, integrated into the militarization of the eu and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, among others. while recognizing and respecting the right of each country and each people to decide in a sovereign manner whether or not to belong to the european union, we cannot but strongly condemn this unacceptable attitude of imposing models of economic and social organization, all the more so since these models that are to be imposed have already revealed to the world their devastating consequences both from an economic point of view - especially for the most fragile and least developed economies - and from a social point of view. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ the eu enlargement process is slow and incorporates a number of rules that have to be respected. montenegro is currently the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally closed negotiating chapters with the eu, a development which is welcomed. this prominent position of montenegro means increased responsibility, both at regional level and at the level of the whole enlargement process. we must welcome the progress made by montenegro and continue to work towards achieving our objectives. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2006 montenegro declared its independence from the state of serbia and in 2008 it applied for membership of the union. four years later the council approved the opening of negotiations, granting montenegro the status of candidate country. the copenhagen criteria have been implemented by the montenegrin authorities, in particular in their political, economic and social dimension and the application of the community acquis. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. the chapter on science, education, culture and research is now closed. despite the progress made in the negotiations, there is concern that political instability could affect the actual implementation of the reforms. i would also like to stress that the conditions for freedom of expression and information for the media must be guaranteed, since this is a basic pillar of the rule of law. for the above reasons, i vote in favour of the efforts made by montenegro, its entities and citizens.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, of 2010 provides for the accession of montenegro to the eu. this resolution concerns the 2014 progress report on montenegro's progress towards such an objective. the report supports the continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular in the field of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption. it also welcomed the progress made in the accession negotiations, noting the opening of 16 chapters, the provisional closure of two (science and scientific research, education and culture) and the implementation of reforms to ensure an independent and more efficient judiciary. it also stresses the importance of ensuring that the reform process is inclusive and involves civil society. finally, it welcomed the fact that montenegro had played a constructive role in regional and international cooperation and in the process of regional reconciliation. i voted in favour.
‒ the developments concerning montenegro's accession to the european union are very welcome. however, there is still a long way to go. rule of law reforms are now at the heart of the european integration process and prove to be an essential condition for progress in the overall accession talks. however, there are other points to be mentioned, including the importance of transparency in policy and legislation making; the importance of freedom of expression for journalists and their media; the urgent improvements in the quality of education and improvements in the area of women's rights and gender equality (representation of women in politics and the labour market and combating domestic violence).
‒ we respect the sovereign will of the people of the republic of montenegro, in particular in the decision to join or not to join the eu. however, we see in this report another seduction exercise which is no longer viable to tie this country more closely to the neoliberal and militarist agenda of the eu and nato. if it does, the people will once again suffer the consequences of this enlargement, which is the result of the eu's insatiable desire to expand its market while at the same time securing and expanding its military control over that area of europe.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution contains a broad set of considerations on the process of montenegro's integration into the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we highlight the interference in the economic, judicial and political system, in the advanced foreign and security policy guidelines, in particular the country's accession to nato integrated in the militarization of the eu and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, among others. we consider unacceptable the bossy attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements relating to the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of the legitimate right to decide their future, where they belong, the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also of economic and social development strategies. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ i would like to stress the quality and thoroughness of mr vajgl's report on the development of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as a candidate country for accession to the european union. it is indisputable that, in many respects, the fyrom is developing positively, which confirms the value of eu enlargement as a tool for enabling economic growth and consolidating democracy in the candidate countries. the report highlights many areas where the fyrom is still far from community standards, but nevertheless presses the council to open accession negotiations. as i maintain a position of cautious reserve with regard to further enlargements (i believe that the eu still has some time to digest the latest enlargements), i shall abstain in the vote.
‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for nine years and reports say the country is ready to negotiate with the eu. the council has blocked the transition to the next stage of the accession process because of the unresolved name dispute with greece which should not be an obstacle to accession negotiations with the european union. i think it is important that the council should set a date for the opening of accession negotiations without delay, so as not to lose momentum, to support the reforms related to the acquis and to strengthen the process of democratisation. bilateral issues cannot constitute an obstacle to the launch of accession talks and must nevertheless be resolved before the end of the accession process. i think it is essential that both governments take concrete steps to find a mutually acceptable solution.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the treaty on european union should be incorporated into the treaty on european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. among others, special mention should be made of the interference in the economic, judicial and political system, in the advanced foreign and security policy guidelines, in particular the country's accession to nato, integrated into the militarization of the eu and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, among others. while recognizing and respecting the right of each country and each people to decide in a sovereign manner whether or not to belong to the european union, we cannot but strongly condemn this unacceptable attitude of imposing models of economic and social organization, all the more so since these models that are to be imposed have already revealed to the world their devastating consequences both from an economic point of view - especially for the most fragile and least developed economies - and from a social point of view. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for nine years and is also the most advanced country in terms of alignment with the acquis. despite the difficulties in pursuing the enlargement policy, we must congratulate the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the progress it has made. the council should seek to find a date for resuming negotiations in the near future. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia since its independence in 1991 has faced some opposition from the greek side, in particular as regards its nomenclature. in 2004 the jra of macedonia applied for membership of the union, achieving candidate status in 2005. however, to date the negotiations have not yet started. i am in favour of this report, which calls for negotiations to begin as soon as possible. the country faces problems of political instability and violations of freedom of expression, the media and the independence of the judiciary, which can be solved with the support of the union. despite the controversy, i believe it is extremely important that we support the political, social and economic development of the people of the fyr of macedonia.
‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for nine years and is also the most advanced country in terms of alignment by acquis. this resolution reiterates the commission's recommendation to the council to open negotiations with a view to the accession of the country to the eu. i welcome the high level of alignment with the legislative acquis and the improved efficiency and professionalism of the courts resulting from comprehensive judicial reforms and note the positive developments in the implementation of the 2011-2015 anti-corruption programmes by the candidate country. i also welcome the fact that the country has maintained an active and constructive attitude in the field of regional cooperation and that it has no outstanding border dispute with neighbouring countries. i also believe that the name issue raised by greece, which is a bilateral issue, cannot be an obstacle to the launch of accession talks. finally, i would remind you that the delay in opening these negotiations could have a negative impact on the reform processes in the country, exacerbate internal tensions and affect the eu's credibility in the region. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ i supported this resolution as it calls on the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations without delay, in order not to lose the momentum presented by macedonia, to support reforms and to strengthen the democratisation process. i also believe that the name issue cannot be an obstacle to the launch of accession talks, but must be resolved before the accession process is completed. even if accession does not happen quickly, it is important that the applicant countries can undertake structural reforms which will bring them closer to european aims and principles.
in writing. ‒ it is important to set a date without delay for the start of the accession negotiations for macedonia with the european union, as the member states have committed to return to this issue in 2015 in order to open accession negotiations. however, macedonia still has to address some gaps in its internal policy. it is imperative that the government pursue a policy of strengthening media pluralism and diversity of opinion. the high rate of child poverty and the lack of capacity of the institutions responsible for implementing policies and strategic actions in this area are also of concern.
‒ we respect the sovereign will of the people of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, in particular in the decision to join or not to join the eu. however, we see in this report another seduction exercise which is no longer viable to tie this country more closely to the neoliberal and militarist agenda of the eu and nato. if it does, the people will once again suffer the consequences of this enlargement, which is the result of the eu's insatiable desire to expand its market while at the same time securing and expanding its military control over that area of europe.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution contains a broad set of considerations on the process of integration of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia into the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we stress the interference in the negotiations with greece in the definition of the country's name, in the economic, judicial and political system, in the advanced guidelines on foreign and security policy, in particular the country's accession to nato integrated in the militarization of the eu and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, among others. we consider unacceptable the bossy attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements relating to the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of the legitimate right to decide their future, where they belong, the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also of economic and social development strategies. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ i would like to stress the quality and thoroughness of mr david mcallister's report on serbia's progress as a candidate country for accession to the european union. it is indisputable that serbia is developing positively in many respects, which confirms the value of eu enlargement as a tool for enabling economic growth, maintaining peace and consolidating democracy in the candidate countries. the report also highlights areas of concern such as the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities, urgent reform of the judicial sector, the need to adopt delayed legislation, relations with neighbouring states such as kosovo and improved cooperation with the international criminal court. as i maintain a position of cautious reserve with regard to further enlargements (i believe that the eu still has some time to digest the latest enlargements), i shall abstain in the vote.
‒ serbia has been making progress in the european integration process and efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the conditions set out in the stabilisation and association process. i would stress that i have taken important steps towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo. the positive assessment of the parliamentary elections by international observers is another point in favour of the serbian government. i believe that it is time for serbia to take a decisive, direct approach to systemic and socioeconomic reforms and to rigorously implement the legislation and policies that will transform it into a state governed by the rule of law.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the republic of serbia with the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we highlight the interference in that country's relationship with the serbian province of kosovo, or in its relationship with the icc, the interference in the country's economic, judicial and political system, in the country's advanced foreign and security policy guidelines, in particular the country's accession to nato, integrated into the militarization of the eu and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, among others. we consider unacceptable the bossy attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of the legitimate right to decide their future, where they belong, the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ serbia has been taking important steps towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo, which resulted in the signing of the first agreement on the principles of normalisation of 19 april 2013. it has also made efforts to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria and conditions of the stabilisation and association process. as a rule, the eu accession drive is an important driver in countries interested in joining the eu, and hopefully this is also the motivation of serbia. we look forward to the development of the negotiations and to serbia's positive developments in the various matters under discussion. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the western balkans region has five candidate countries. serbia formalised its accession in 2009 and was granted candidate status in 2012. however, it was not until 2014 that formal accession negotiations were launched at the 1st intergovernmental conference. parliament stressed some concerns about the slow progress of the reforms needed to establish the rule of law. it therefore considers that the chapters on fundamental and judicial rights and the dimension of justice, freedom and security should be opened as a first step. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of the implementation of legislation to protect minorities, both in terms of access to education and the right to use their own languages. another point to be noted in the negative is serbia's alignment with russian foreign policy, which runs counter to the line taken by the union. finally, i would like to emphasize the efforts made by the serbian authorities in the process of stabilization with neighbouring kosovo, which is a sign of the country's maturity. i believe that the strengthening of relations between the two countries must accompany both negotiating processes. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european council of 28 june 2013 decided to open accession negotiations with serbia, and the first intergovernmental conference (igc) was held on 21 january 2014. this resolution concerns the 2014 monitoring report on serbia, which aims to analyse the progress made by this candidate country in the process of european integration, assessing its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the conditions set out in the stabilisation and association process. i note that serbia needs to improve the planning, coordination and monitoring of the implementation of new legislation and policies. it also needs to pursue structural reforms in the socioeconomic field to combat corruption and organised crime. i welcome the constructive approach taken by the serbian government in relations with neighbouring countries, which has enabled substantial progress to be made both in terms of regional cooperation and in approaching the eu. finally, the work of the independent regulatory bodies and their contribution to improving the legal framework and the accountability of state institutions in the defence of the rule of law should be emphasised. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work carried out by serbia in the context of the work carried out for the accession process to the european union. the commitment shown towards eu integration shows that the guidelines set by the various european bodies have been taken into account. the important steps taken by serbia in the normalisation of relations with kosovo and the other neighbouring countries are noteworthy.
in writing. ‒ we respect the sovereign will of the serbian people, including in the decision to join or not to join the eu. however, we see in this report another seduction exercise which is no longer viable to tie this country more closely to the neoliberal and militarist agenda of the eu and nato. if it does, the people will once again suffer the consequences of this enlargement, which is the result of the eu's insatiable desire to expand its market while at the same time securing and expanding its military control over that area of europe.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the republic of serbia with the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we highlight the interference in that country's relationship with the serbian province of kosovo, or in its relationship with the icc, the interference in the country's economic, judicial and political system, in the country's advanced foreign and security policy guidelines, in particular the country's accession to nato integrated in the militarization of the eu and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, among others. we consider unacceptable the bossy attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of the legitimate right to decide their future, where they belong, the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ i would like to stress the quality and thoroughness of my colleague ulrike lunacek's report on kosovo's progress as a candidate for accession to the european union. it is indisputable that kosovo is developing positively in many respects, which confirms the value of eu enlargement as a tool for enabling economic growth and consolidating democracy in the candidate countries. the report does, however, highlight several areas of concern, some of which are to be expected given the small size of the state and the fragility of its institutions. as i maintain a position of cautious reserve with regard to further enlargements (i believe that the eu still has some time to digest the latest enlargements), i shall abstain in the vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which supports the process of democratisation, state-building and economic development in kosovo, in the framework of the good relations between that country and the eu.
‒ seven years after its independence, kosovo still faces many challenges such as weak economic prospects, high unemployment or recognition of its independence. it is the only country in the western balkans whose citizens cannot travel freely within the eu, and is therefore not a full member of the international community. the report also argues that parliament should continue to press for visa liberalisation with kosovo, something tangible that citizens understand and feel the effects of in the first person. i would stress the call on the government of kosovo to step up the fight against corruption and organised crime and to continue a constructive dialogue between pristina and belgrade, as well as progress on the rule of law and freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ first of all, it should be recalled that the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo constituted a serious and unacceptable precedent in terms of violation of international law. the fact that this independence is still not recognised by many countries, including some of those in the eu, is a matter of concern, despite the strong pressure from the eu for recognition. this was a process which has undoubtedly contributed and is contributing to the instability of the balkan region. this is a striking example of the interference and instrumental nature of the eu and us foreign policies in defending their geostrategic interests, while disregarding and violating the fundamental rights of peoples. an example that exposes the contradictions in the eu's discourse on defending the maintenance of borders. these are reasons for our vote against.
in writing. ‒ i have always been and still am a critic of the way in which kosovo's independence was recognised. i am therefore following this process of integration with interest and hope that it will not make the same mistakes as in the past.
‒ kosovo unilaterally declared its independence in 2008, after the failure of international negotiations. several countries, such as portugal, france, germany, and the united states, have recognized it as a sovereign state. however, there are still countries like spain, russia that consider kosovo part of serbia. for the reasons set out above, kosovo is only a potential candidate for the union. however, the union has been supporting its economic and social development not only through financial assistance but also through the presence of eulex in the territory with the aim of implementing reforms towards the rule of law and the presence of the special representative of the union for kosovo. kosovo has been progressively implementing some reforms. however, there are still elements in the judicial sphere that undermine the implementation of the rule of law, in particular the full independence, transparency, impartiality and efficiency of judges and magistrates. it is now important that the alleged cases of corruption within eulex be investigated so that concrete clarifications can be made. the dialogue between pristina and belgrade must continue in order to maintain stability in the region.
‒ the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo were concluded in may 2014. this resolution welcomes the end of the six months of political impasse following the elections, encourages the new government to continue on the path of european integration and reports on the progress made in this regard. since then, some progress has been made in legislation on the judicial system and its organisation. the kosovo judicial council has been established by the kosovo government in accordance with the law of the republic of kosovo. the allegations of corruption concerning eulex should also be highlighted, which highlight the lack of significant progress in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. in any event, it is important to encourage the new government to continue on the european path and to welcome its commitment to pursue a series of reforms aimed at strengthening and affirming the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime at all levels. i voted in favour.
in the light of the recent events, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. however, there are still some concerns about the new government, with the budgetary implications arising from the unnecessarily high number of ministers and deputy ministers, as well as the low number of women in the executive. the new government must be encouraged to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment and determination, so as to bring this country into line with the european principles necessary for its full integration.
in writing. ‒ although a new government has been appointed for kosovo, i am concerned about the unnecessarily high number of ministers and deputy ministers in the new government, given the budgetary implications. the low number of women in ministerial posts is also a cause for concern. an increase in the number of women in this role could be a positive incentive for society at large. it is important that this new government also gives a clear signal that it is fighting corruption and tax evasion, a problem that is very present in kosovo.
‒ we respect the sovereign will of the people of kosovo, including in the decision to join or not to join the eu. however, we see in this report another seduction exercise which is no longer viable to tie this country more closely to the neoliberal and militarist agenda of the eu and nato. if it does, the people will once again suffer the consequences of this enlargement, which is the result of the eu's insatiable desire to expand its market while at the same time securing and expanding its military control over that area of europe.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. it is imperative to remember that the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo constituted an unacceptable precedent in international law, which is still not recognized by many countries, particularly those that are members of the eu. this situation is undoubtedly contributing to the instability of the balkan region and is a striking example of the interference and loss of sovereignty that the process of european integration and the eu and us foreign policies impose on the peoples. it brings to the fore the undeniable contradictions in the eu's discourse on defending the maintenance of borders. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ despite the slowdown in the eu's economic recovery in 2014, the european commission forecasts a recovery in 2015 and strongly in the following year, 2016. i share the view that the eu economy as a whole needs to boost its activity on the world stage through a range of measures ranging from increased competition, the investment plan for europe, support for smes, promotion of a single energy market, structural reforms in a number of member states and fiscal responsibility. i regret that at institutional level the amount of unpaid invoices amounts to eur 24.7 billion, and that the principle of budgetary accuracy is being called into question because of the discrepancy between payments and commitments, and that the treaty, which does not allow a deficit in the european budget, is being violated.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the member states' fiscal policies are consistent with the objectives of the treaty and with the objectives of the treaty on european union. the resolution also notes the very low level of implementation of the country-specific recommendations and supports the simplification measures now proposed, with the aim of reversing this trend, which results in a loss of competitiveness on the part of the european economy.
‒ despite the slowdown in the eu's economic recovery, the outlook for 2015 projects a recovery that will be more significant in 2016. however, unemployment is still high. the report also takes account of the decline in the level of investment by eur 470 000 but highlights the considerable effort that has been made by europe to respond to the sovereign debt crisis. the recovery is fragile and needs to be strengthened in the medium term to respond to short-term cyclical problems as well as long-term structural problems. the commission has been making an effort to promote a return to higher growth levels supported by the promotion of investment, acceleration of structural reforms and pursuit of responsible growth-friendly fiscal consolidation.
‒ the annual growth survey (2015) is the starting point for the european semester procedure and for the whole process of economic governance. this report provides broad political guidelines on which national budgets should be built, under the risk that countries will be subject to sanctioning procedures if these guidelines are not followed. the european parliament continues to advocate 'austerity' and 'structural reforms', particularly in the labour market and the privatisation of companies and public services, which guarantee equal access to social rights won after decades of struggle. we are facing a setback of a civilizational dimension. the so-called economic governance and the european semester supported by the sacrosanct alliance between the right and social democracy are a way of tying the national states to the neoliberal agenda of the european union, in the service of big capital. they seek to prevent countries from being able to decide their collective future in a sovereign way, forcing them to watch with their arms tied as their economies are destroyed. we obviously voted against it.
‒ the euro area recession ended in numerical terms in the second quarter of 2013, but annual growth in the euro area remains weak in 2014 and unemployment remains at a very high level. sustainable growth needs to be significantly strengthened if it is to be seen as a long-term recovery capable of providing the necessary momentum to mitigate the eu's socioeconomic challenges. only investment capacity will be able to provide incentives for economic growth. only the budget surpluses and budgetary balances of the member states will allow the funds needed for the investments that will lead to sustained growth in the euro area to be released.
in writing. ‒ following the pattern of previous years of weak economic growth, 2015 could be the year of economic recovery and the much-anticipated job creation across europe. i vote in favour of the commission's annual growth survey 2015 as it promotes new levels of growth with a view to achieving higher levels of growth and strengthening the recovery. i believe that the three-pillar approach of promoting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation is very useful. i also believe that it is essential that the member states do not slow down the structural reforms they are required to adopt, thus facilitating a rapid economic recovery.
‒ the european semester, launched in 2010, sets out an annual cycle of economic policy coordination with a detailed analysis of member states' plans in terms of budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms. this resolution concerns the annual growth survey for 2015, prepared by the commission in the context of the european semester, the main objective of which is to promote a return to higher growth levels and to strengthen the recovery. indeed, the euro area is still grappling with the consequences of an exceptionally long economic slowdown since 2008, with the recovery still fragile. in this context, the commission has adopted an approach based on three main pillars: promoting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. the commission also stressed the importance of the european structural and investment funds (including the youth employment initiative), which account for 10% of total public investment on average in the eu. finally, it stressed the urgent need to combat effectively tax fraud, which is estimated to be depriving the eu budget of substantial resources. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the three pillars (promoting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation) which i consider essential to promoting a return to higher growth levels and strengthening the economic and employment recovery at union level. i also believe that this commitment should be incorporated into the next country-specific recommendations, also increasing the involvement of national parliaments with a view to strengthening the national ownership of these measures, given that only around 9% of the country-specific recommendations were fully implemented by member states in 2013. i support the intention that member states should manage their expenditure in line with the requirements of the stability and growth pact (sgp) by cutting current expenditure rather than reducing investment commitments. reforms are also needed to facilitate a new entrepreneurial climate that stimulates business creation, new investment and innovation. finally, it is essential and urgent to combat effectively tax fraud which is likely to be depriving the eu budget of substantial resources and creating serious economic distortions.
‒ the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination shows that the euro area is still struggling with the consequences of the economic slowdown that began in 2008. the recovery we have been finding is still fragile. in this respect, it is important that the member states, in coordinated action with the european bodies, continue to work towards the relaunch of the european economy.
‒ the annual growth survey (2015) is the starting point of the european semester and of the whole process of economic governance. this report provides the broad political guidelines on which national budgets should be built. as expected, he continues to advocate austerity and structural reforms, particularly in the labour market and the privatisation of businesses and public services that guarantee equal access to social rights won after decades of struggle. this is totally unacceptable, because in this time of crisis it prevents countries from intervening with redistributive policies to help those in need and prevent the collapse of aggregate consumption. economic governance and the european semester are a way of tying national states to the neoliberal agendas of the european union, in the service of the big economic interests. they prevent countries from being able to decide their collective future in a sovereign way, forcing them to watch with their arms tied as their economies are destroyed. we cannot accept this passively and we will do everything to break with this monetary dictatorship.
‒ the annual growth survey (2015) is the starting point of the european semester and of the whole process of economic governance, providing the broad political guidelines on which national budgets should be built. it continues to advocate austerity and structural reforms, particularly in the labour market and the privatisation of businesses and public services, which guarantee equal access to social rights won after decades of struggle. this is totally unacceptable, because in this time of crisis, it prevents countries from intervening with redistributive policies to help those in need and prevent the collapse of aggregate consumption. economic governance and the european semester are a way of tying the nation states to the neoliberal agendas of the european union in the service of the big economic interests. we voted against it, of course.
‒ the european semester process is a valuable instrument in coordinating the economic and social policies of the member states. in this context, we must advocate greater emphasis and better integration of the economic, social and employment dimensions in an instrument which has, up to now, been overly focused on the macroeconomic and monetary dimensions of the european union. the resolution stresses that social and employment considerations must be placed on an equal footing with macroeconomic considerations in the european semester process. it also expressed concern at the social and employment indicators used, which do not take into account the quality or sustainability of the jobs created. stresses that when analysing unemployment rates, factors such as the increase in the rates of inactive people and migration are not given due consideration; reforms that promote human capital through education policies that are adapted to market needs need to be undertaken to make europe a more attractive place for investment, particularly in those areas with the highest added value. the european semester should be instrumental in this diagnosis and in the definition of new policies.
‒ europe must be committed to a social market economy model that ensures sustainable growth in order to provide jobs instead of debt for the next generation. according to the report, despite negative growth rates in the euro area over the past two years, growth in the euro area is expected to reach 0,8% in 2014 and 1,1% in 2015. on the other hand, the overall projected deficit in the eu-28, despite having been reduced to 3% in 2014, remains high in some member states, demonstrating the need for further fiscal consolidation compatible with sustainable growth and job creation. the sharp decline in oil prices could provide an additional boost to the economy of many member states, especially if it translates rapidly into lower energy costs for households and businesses. to do this, the eu needs to continue to improve its economic and social policies in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to make efforts to promote investment and structural reforms that increase economic competitiveness in a socially responsible manner.
‒ this is one of three reports on the european semester procedure, addressing the social and employment aspects. the report acknowledges the rise in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and considers these to be more or less inevitable and necessary, though undesirable, consequences of 'fiscal consolidation'. we are therefore faced with a certain hypocrisy and even a certain cynicism. the report continues to defend measures that have been integrated into the so-called 'fiscal consolidation' policies, the 'structural reforms', i.e. the measures that led to the problems that the report itself diagnoses. reduced wages, lay-offs, cuts in public investment that are counter to economic growth and therefore responsible for the increase in the unemployment rate. the report recommends, for example, 'flexicurity', the alignment of wages with productivity, the raising of the retirement age, the promotion of mobility as a way of reducing unemployment in some countries. finally, the fraudulent neoliberal cartel, shared by both the right and the social democrats. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ the euro area recession ended in numerical terms in the second quarter of 2013, but annual growth in the euro area remains weak in 2014 and unemployment remains at a very high level. sustainable growth needs to be significantly strengthened if it is to be seen as a long-term recovery capable of providing the necessary momentum to mitigate the eu's socioeconomic challenges. only investment capacity will be able to provide incentives for economic growth. only a budget surplus and a balanced budget in the member states will free up the funds needed for the investments that will lead to sustained growth in the euro area and the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment.
‒ the european semester must be strategically positioned to drive investment, job creation and new periods of economic growth in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i recognise that member states which have implemented structural reforms have been able to regain their competitiveness on the global market and because i consider it important to boost private investment and facilitate access to finance for smes. i also believe that it is essential to make more effective and efficient use of european public resources, and that these funds should be channelled into projects that will boost employment, especially among young people, and the competitiveness of enterprises.
‒ the european semester, launched in 2010, sets out an annual cycle of economic policy coordination with a detailed analysis of member states' plans in terms of budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms. this resolution concerns the employment and social aspects of the 2015 annual growth survey prepared by the commission in the context of the european semester, which aims to support growth and employment in parallel with fiscal consolidation. indeed, the economic and social context in the eu continues to raise concerns and, according to the commission's economic forecast for autumn 2014, the economic recovery will remain fragile. indeed, the unemployment rate remains at a historically high level, with almost 25 million people unemployed in the eu, a quarter of europeans at risk of poverty and underemployment and precariousness at all-time highs. the eu therefore needs to continue to improve its economic and social policies in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by promoting investment and structural reforms that increase economic competitiveness in a socially responsible manner. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the european semester to include the following areas: only then can sustainable growth be ensured, so that better job opportunities are passed on to the next generation instead of a heavy inheritance, by holding them accountable for debts they did not commit. it is important to remember that only by promoting reproductive investments will we be stimulating sustainable job creation, which will enable real investment in human capital, professional mobility, research and innovation, which are essential to expanding the eu's economic potential and thus bringing prosperity to the people of europe. europe is a europe of regions, and the european project must leave no one behind. we must therefore continue to pay special attention to the outermost regions, the less developed regions, if we are to have real social and territorial cohesion in a europe at one speed. member states also have to do their part by eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens and red tape that discourage entrepreneurship, self-employment, the creation of 'start-ups', micro, smes that are the catalysts of economic growth, innovation, employment and social inclusion.
‒ the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination shows that the euro area is still struggling with the consequences of the economic slowdown that began in 2008. the commission must ensure that investment in economically less favoured regions is guaranteed. investment should be directed towards training and education, the fight against poverty, job creation and the fight against unemployment, support for smes and research.
in writing. ‒ we consider that the economic and social context in the eu remains bleak and that, according to the commission's autumn 2014 economic forecast, the economic recovery remains fragile. growth rates have been negative in the euro area for the past two years. we regret that the european semester has no social and employment objectives and is not in line with the social principles enshrined in the treaties. we see no more determined efforts to guide and coordinate eu policies to foster growth and better job creation. so without new policies, the burden will continue to fall on families and workers.
‒ strengthening the governance of the single market is inseparable from the practical possibility of establishing a specific pillar of the european semester dedicated to it. the coordination of economic and employment policies must be complemented by a core part covering all possible levers to stimulate the real economy which might otherwise fall outside the overall coordination of the european semester. i believe that priority areas such as the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, the digital agenda, consumer protection, energy and transport should be coordinated at the highest level within the annual governance cycle. leaving them out of the european semester would be a gross mistake in the eu's economic growth policy, obliterating the untapped potential of this market rather than using it as a catalyst for economic recovery and sustainable growth while attracting investment and promoting social cohesion. only by deepening and paying particular attention to the internal market in the context of the european semester, exploiting its potential for growth and jobs, will the european commission be able to achieve the priorities it has set for 2015 and the member states overcome the challenges posed by globalisation and the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the importance of the single market as an attractor of investment and business activity, being at the heart of europe's competitiveness and representing its greatest economic strength. the eu must support member states in increasing crossborder trade in services, creating a single energy market, and taking urgent action to keep pace with the evolution of digital technologies. the strengthening of the governance of the single market is linked to the practical possibility of establishing a specific pillar within the framework of the european semester. i support the rapporteur in his view that the coordination of economic and employment policies must be complemented by a fundamental pillar covering the single market with the aim of stimulating the real economy. this pillar should cover a clear set of priorities related to the real economy and the main areas of growth.
‒ the single market and the digital single market are two essential tools to boost economic growth and create quality jobs in the eu. at the same time, complementarity with more traditional growth drivers such as expanding investment in research, development and innovation in training and education should be ensured, and particular attention should be paid to the needs of smes. the report stresses the need to strengthen the governance of the single market as a horizontal priority of the different union policies, while preserving the necessary balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions. for a single market to function well and effectively, it must be based on a sustainable and highly innovative and competitive social market economy, which is necessary to increase sustainable growth and competitiveness, attract investment, promote social cohesion and create jobs in order to revitalise the european economy.
‒ the single market the principle, pillar, objective and priority of this integration is one of the main driving forces behind the divergence and deepening inequalities between countries in the eu. for countries such as portugal, the single market meant trade imbalances and a weakening of the national productive apparatus in the face of competitive pressures which the country was not prepared to face. this report aims to strengthen the governance of the single market within the european semester, giving top priority to horizontal implementation across all eu policies. no lessons are learned from the negative consequences of the policies that have been advocated and implemented. on the contrary, it insists on these policies. these priorities are a matter of deep concern, even though there are ongoing attempts to gild the pill with the usual brushstrokes of 'social', 'sustainable' and 'innovation'. we voted against it.
‒ strengthening the governance of the single market is closely linked to the practical possibility of establishing a specific pillar of the european semester. the coordination of economic and employment policies must be complemented by a core part covering all possible levers to stimulate the real economy which might otherwise fall outside the overall coordination of the european semester. the coordination of single market priorities in the context of the european semester should be based on a more robust democratic process with the full participation of national parliaments. and it should be concerned with policies that lead to economic growth and job creation.
‒ the single market and the digital single market should be seen as two essential instruments to boost economic growth and create quality jobs in the european union, and complementarity with more traditional growth drivers should be ensured. i am voting in favour of this report, mainly because i recognise that there is a huge untapped potential in the single market and that certain strategic areas can make a decisive contribution to improving the quality of life of citizens and increasing europe's competitiveness. i would therefore like to stress the urgency of completing the single market for services and moving rapidly towards the digital single market, as both areas of activity could contribute to more than 3% of gdp growth and thousands of jobs each year.
‒ the european semester, launched in 2010, sets out an annual cycle of economic policy coordination with a detailed analysis of member states' plans in terms of budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms. this resolution concerns the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester, with the aim of strengthening it. in fact, the single market has not yet reached its full potential. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the governance of the single market within the european semester, while preserving the necessary balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and to improve the quality of the transposition, application and enforcement of the rules governing the single market, while also significantly reducing the duration of infringement proceedings. i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for clearer and more rigorous governance of the single market, especially in the context of the european semester. the coordination of economic and employment policies must be supplemented by a fundamental part covering all possible levers to stimulate the real economy. special attention is also needed in the main areas of growth with potential for economic recovery and relevant convergence, such as the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, the digital single market, the body of consumer protection legislation, energy and transport. the re-establishment of political oversight at the highest level should be enforced, avoiding any distinction between actions undertaken at eu level and those undertaken at member state level. the single market is a key driver of growth and jobs and has an indispensable role to play in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
‒ with regard to the governance of the single market, the commission's support for the development of a set of analytical tools to correctly measure economic performance is important. the investments shall be made with a view to the objectives set out in the strategy 2020. that is how we will achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ like the rapporteur, i consider the completion of the single market, comprising more than 500 million europeans, a key instrument for the relaunch of more equitable economic growth and quality jobs in the eu, as outlined in the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to this end, there must be a concerted effort between the eu and the member states to promote cross-border trade in services, a good and proper application and enforcement of single market rules as there are improvements to be made, in particular, in the transposition into national legislation, understanding of the legislative framework and duration of infringement proceedings. in this respect, i agree with the general guidelines set out in this report in the context of the european semester as a horizontal priority of the different union policies, preserving the balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions and improving the quality of transposition, application, enforcement and monitoring of the rules of the single market, guaranteeing businesses access to an internal market capable of attracting investment and ensuring the necessary competitiveness for the eu to improve its economic model and assert itself as an effective global economic power.
‒ the single market is now a priority for the european union. the european semester does not provide for any formal monitoring system on this issue. this report, by proposing the inclusion of a pillar (plus one) of the european semester devoted to the single market, represents yet another unacceptable step in the process of curtailing the sovereignty of national states in the conduct of their policies. these priorities are a cause for deep concern, especially when the golden pill is a social, sustainable and innovative strategy aimed at building a european industrial strategy, which does not always take into account the specificities and needs of industrial development in each member state.
‒ the report recognises that the rise in unemployment and the growth in poverty and social exclusion is due to the impact of budgetary consolidation. however, in the proposals it continues to advocate measures which have been integrated into the policy of budgetary consolidation and structural reforms, which have led precisely to the problems which the report itself identifies. these are the measures which have led to the reduction of wages, the lay-offs, the cuts in public investment which are contrary to economic growth and therefore responsible for the increase in the unemployment rate. the report recommends, for example, continued fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, flexicurity, the alignment of wages with productivity and the raising of the retirement age, and the promotion of mobility as a way of reducing unemployment in some countries. we voted against it.
‒ this resolution focuses on one of the most pressing problems of the new virtual world and which - despite the efforts that have already been made - continues unfortunately to happen and to put our children at risk. it is therefore crucial to respond to the dangers that still abound on the internet and to ensure that authorities have effective monitoring and prevention capabilities. equally important, the union and the member states should also direct their efforts towards improving the awareness of educators, families and children themselves. but it is still up to the member states to implement the community framework on this matter quickly, ensuring concerted action on this phenomenon which knows no borders. in this context, the in-depth analysis to be carried out by the libe committee on this matter is of particular importance and i will put my full effort into it to better protect our children throughout the union. for all these reasons, i could not but vote in favour of this resolution and contribute to the broad consensus it has managed to achieve.
‒ the european parliament aims to combat sexual exploitation of children through this diploma by cracking down on criminals, increasing the protection of child victims of crime and focusing on preventing the phenomenon. the wording of this resolution had already been agreed with the different political groups in the ep, demonstrating the urgency and relevance of the subject. there is indeed convergence on the need for measures to manage child pornography on the internet, the existence of sufficient legal instruments to investigate and prosecute criminals, child education in ways that children can easily understand, measures to protect their personal data online, european cooperation and the establishment of best practices. the proposal also aims to cover a new dimension of the phenomenon, namely its expansion through the 'deep web', and urges representatives of alternative payment systems (e.g. bitcoin) to join the fight against child abuse, while strengthening the competence of judicial and police units in the field of high technology to face the challenge of analysing the large volume of child pornography images or materials.
‒ more efforts are needed to investigate child sexual abuse on the internet, prosecute the perpetrators, protect children and remove illegal content online. more than 80% of children who are victims of sexual abuse on the internet are under the age of ten. the sexual exploitation of children and images of abuse need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, covering the investigation of these crimes, the prosecution of the perpetrators, the protection of children and the prevention of this phenomenon. i agree that illegal content must be immediately removed and reported to the police authorities, and that europol and national police authorities must be provided with the funding, human resources, investigative powers and technical capabilities they need to effectively investigate and prosecute criminals. eu countries that have not yet transposed the 2011 directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography into national law should do so.
‒ we share the general concerns expressed in this resolution. the internet can expose children to specific risks. measures are necessary to ensure its defence. the resolution does not, however, avoid mixing up just concepts and concerns with intentions likely to undermine fundamental rights and freedoms. the restrictions on widespread access to information technology, mobile communications and the internet are obvious dangers. it is necessary to ensure that, under the uncrc, the child has the right to freedom of expression, which includes the freedom to seek, receive and impart information, and that children are recognised as having the right to access information and material from a variety of national and international sources. it is also the responsibility of states and the companies providing these services to provide information to children and young people so that they can effectively manage risks and know where to turn for help. states must have sufficient resources to prevent cyber predatory and cyber harassment content on the internet and policies that have led to underfunding of educational programmes for children and parents must be reversed in order to protect children from these risks.
‒ more efforts are needed to investigate child sexual abuse on the internet, prosecute offenders, protect children and remove illegal content online. the resolution stresses that the reform of data protection rules currently under way will bring important changes to better protect children's rights on the internet. more than 80% of children who are victims of sexual abuse on the internet are under the age of ten. international cooperation and transnational investigations in this area need to be improved, as these crimes involve hundreds of countries, with their respective jurisdictions and police authorities. in this regard, the joint initiative of the eu and 55 countries from around the world, brought together in the global alliance against the sexual abuse of children on the internet, which aims to save more victims, ensure more effective repression, increase awareness and achieve a general reduction in child pornography material available online, is very important. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the fight against the sexual abuse of children on the internet and in new forms of mobile technologies must be regarded by all of us as a serious violation of children's fundamental rights. as expressed in the charter of fundamental rights of the union and the united nations convention on the rights of the child, the best interests of our children must prevail and the fight against these crimes must be addressed appropriately by member states. i believe that this phenomenon should be integrated into a broader and more comprehensive strategy on the sexual exploitation and abuse of children. governments must do more to stop illegal content online, but there must also be action from industry and from all of us, parents, educators and citizens. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and called on the member states to implement directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
‒ the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child abuse images, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of children to protection and care necessary for their well-being, as set out in the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this resolution considers that the internet may expose children to specific risks by allowing them access to or exposing them to child pornography or subjecting them to cyber predators, the sharing of violent content, intimidation, harassment or solicitation. the protection of children and the guarantee of a safe environment for their development are key tasks of the european union and its member states. a comprehensive and coordinated european approach is therefore necessary to ensure consistency in the development of policies and subsequent measures and to respond adequately to the challenges facing the fight against crime, the defence of fundamental rights, privacy and data protection, cybersecurity, consumer protection and electronic commerce. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that children's rights and protection on the internet must be safeguarded. i agree that measures should be put in place quickly to ensure that illegal content is immediately removed and quickly reported to the police and that sufficient legal instruments are in place to investigate and prosecute criminals. given the seriousness of the problem, i agree that an awareness campaign should be launched as soon as possible to empower children and support parents and educators in understanding and dealing with online risks.
‒ the protection of children and the guarantee of a safe environment for their development are key functions of the eu and its member states. the rights and protection of children on the internet must be safeguarded and this requires measures to ensure that illegal content is immediately removed and reported to the law enforcement authorities. in this context, and in order to combat the sexual abuse of children on the internet, the commission and the member states should carry out an awareness-raising campaign involving all relevant stakeholders, with a view to empowering children and supporting parents and educators in understanding online risks, protecting children's safety in this context. it is also important that the european structures support the member states in setting up programmes to prevent sexual abuse on the internet.
in writing. ‒ sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child abuse images, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of children to protection and care necessary for their well-being, as set out in the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we therefore support the need for a comprehensive and coordinated approach to ensure consistency in policy making and subsequent action, including the fight against crime, fundamental rights, privacy and data protection, cybersecurity, consumer protection and electronic commerce. we cannot but demand that the social issues which are often at the root of the sexual exploitation of children as well as other forms of abuse be addressed.
‒ in line with the general concerns expressed in this resolution, such as the fact that the internet may expose children to specific risks, with the objective of defending the rights and protection of children on the internet which must be safeguarded and with the need to take measures to ensure their defence, what we see is that just concepts and concerns are intentionally mixed with intentions that undermine fundamental rights and freedoms. we cannot therefore agree to restricting widespread access to information technology, mobile communications and the internet, or to calling for measures to ensure that illegal content is immediately removed and reported to the police authorities, without referring to the need to guarantee and respect the right to a fair trial and without referring to the importance of respect for the separation of powers. it is therefore not surprising that there is no reference to the subjects of this resolution, children, who are not defined by concepts such as 'illicit content', or even inserted into the subject matter of the resolution. we believe that policies which have led to the underfunding of educational programmes for children and parents in the member states must be reversed in order to protect children on the internet.
mrs mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the report and the rapporteur, and my speech is intended only to stress the importance of the mediterranean and atlantic dimensions of the european union. and with regard to the mediterranean question, and in the context of the neighbourhood policy, i would like to stress the crucial importance of the relationship with the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, for reasons that have to do with migration, that have to do with energy and that have to do with the question of security. moreover, when these countries are going through a period of great transformation and, in some cases, as is particularly the case in tunisia, there is a very serious effort to consolidate a democratic solution. and on the atlantic side, as has already been said, i welcome all the efforts being made to bring the united states closer together, but i would also like to draw attention, in particular, to the importance of investing in a new and deeper relationship with the countries of latin america. latin america is going through a difficult phase, some countries are going through a turbulent period, but it is essential to strengthen the european presence in latin america and i think that this should also be a goal of the european union.
i would naturally like to congratulate mr elmar brok on his excellent report in this area of foreign policy, but i would like to stress two main points. the first is that i think we had to talk about a single neighbourhood policy. we shouldn't be separating the eastern neighborhood from the mediterranean neighborhood. we should look at the idea of a global neighbourhood, especially because we have a pivotal zone that is simultaneously eastern and mediterranean, and therefore where these two components can mix. so i think it was worth looking at each state individually and the neighborhood policy because these situations are different. and then i would like to stress what mr assis has just said, namely that the partnership with the united states is as strategic for our foreign and security policy as our neighbourhood policy and that it implies enlargement to the south atlantic and, in particular, to brazil, which needs great attention at the moment, and to venezuela and argentina, which are at great risk.
war has returned to the european continent with putin's russia's aggression in ukraine, as europe faces an arc of conflict to the east and south. perhaps the danger is that the idea of a european army will be revived, something which is very desirable in the eyes of a federalist like myself, but which is far from being realised by the continued reluctance of the member states to invest in the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy, by coordinating and combining civil and military resources and capabilities. our governments cannot continue to squander taxpayers' money and compromise the security of our societies in the face of cross-border threats that no member state can face alone, such as terrorism. as mr brok's report points out, it is now impossible to separate internal and external security. strategic and coordinated investment in the necessary capacities is required. we have the tools but we have lacked strategic direction and ambition. just look at somalia almost on our doorstep in libya, by omission of europe after the fall of gaddafi. if the union is to defend its citizens and its interests and assert itself as a global provider of security, then it must put its house in order and put into practice its foreign policy and the common security and defence policy, strategically articulating the whole spectrum of internal and external policies. it must immediately review the financing of external action, in particular military missions under the common security and defence policy. it must first of all try to establish a permanent headquarters and to strengthen the industrial and technological base of defence which it has been destroying with austerity policies. and it must trigger the reform of the united nations security council, where the european union must have a permanent seat and be able to restrict the incapacitating veto power.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the commissioner, especially for the work she has been doing, because the european union is in fact promoting respect for democracy, the universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for human dignity throughout the world. the european union's foreign policy is guided by these principles, or should be. the european union's trade policy often favours certain authoritarian regimes which violate human rights every day. no human right can be circumvented, particularly when human beings are used as weapons of war and there are many women who go through and have gone through this hell. women are still the weakest link when it comes to human rights. women have the right to be protected and we have the duty to protect them. the european union should exert much greater pressure in its external relations with countries which repeatedly violate the most basic rights of women and all human beings. we must ensure that there is greater investment in supporting and protecting those who are trying to enter europe, and i want to focus here on the case of the migration of women, men and children from the mediterranean. and let's not see the constant deaths in the mediterranean as collateral damage. we are not going to be able to do that.
the policy of double standards and the neglect of impunity for notorious human rights violators is a blow to the external and internal credibility of the european union. assessing the relations of the union and member states with third countries, in particular with strategic partners receiving development aid, should include a visit to those in their prisons. many of the governments of countries with whom we claim to have special relations, arrest and persecute journalists, bloggers, activists and political opponents, instrumentalising the judicial apparatus to repress, oppress and steal. human rights instruments, concentrated mainly in bilateral dialogues, do not allow for genuine discussion at any level. they are opaque, they lack strategy and scrutiny, and therefore they have everything to fail and fail. the council, the union, parliament and the commission must invest in strategies to release political prisoners and assist human rights activists, considering the impact that repression can have on the security and stability of the countries with which we are in contact. we see the utter failure of a country as important as ethiopia, which is a privileged partner of the union in the acp framework, the african union, etc. an example of a proactive policy would be to demand today that saudi arabia release all political and prisoners of conscience. for example, i congratulate the swedish government on having cancelled all transfers of military equipment to saudi arabia, precisely on the basis of the human rights situation and in particular the rights of women. i would like to conclude by saying that the special representative for human rights has been working very well but too quietly. it is essential that you speak out loud about the human rights situation in the countries you visit. we want to condemn laws that mistake journalists and human rights activists for terrorists in order to silence civil society that is fighting for the very realization of human rights.
in this connection, i would like to focus my attention on two main points: the first point is the question of the transition to democracy. where i think the european union can play a unique role, a very important role, is in supporting those countries that have this democratic aspiration and the forces in those countries that have this democratic aspiration, to prepare those transitions. we have very good examples in southern europe: greece, portugal and spain. in eastern europe, the way in which democratic transitions have been successfully carried out and the way in which the protection of fundamental rights has been greatly improved and enhanced. this would be the first note. and the second, very brief, just to say that we should look at the defence of fundamental rights, not just as an imperative of each moment, but as a progressive process. you have to look at the progress that many countries are making. sometimes, by being too demanding at a certain point, we end up interrupting processes of progress, processes which, in time, would surely bring the defence of fundamental rights to levels that are acceptable.
on behalf of the s&d group. you are right, mrs mogherini, libya must be the priority issue for immediate action by european governments. the governance vacuum is fuelling the escalation of violence and sectarianism, turning libya into a virtual somalia on the doorstep of europe. political agreement between libyans is indispensable and the european union must mobilise diplomacy, targeted sanctions and other means to support the efforts of the united nations representative, bernardino león, to establish a government of national unity, as mrs mogherini has said. a libyan state without a government, which is handing over people, oil installations and the historical heritage of humanity to the atrocities of criminal gangs such as daesh or ansar al-sharia, is a direct threat to the european union. and the scale of the problem cannot be measured by the number of people fleeing conflict and arriving in europe by boat off the coast of libya. the problem of the influx of migrants is not tackled with fortress europe, as mrs mogherini said, but with avenues that facilitate legal migration, the involvement of unhcr in the screening, protection and support of refugees, and a more balanced sharing of refugee reception by european member states. but it is true that terrorism today has in libya a bridge of easy and quick access to the european continent, and there are environmental and cultural disasters of biblical proportions on the horizon, threatening the whole mediterranean. member states must therefore call for and be prepared to contribute substantially to an international mission mandated by the security council to stabilise libya, to help clear it of terrorists. the security council should reform and strengthen the mandate of unsmil on the ground, with responsibility for helping to institutionally equip the country for governance and national and regional security. and the horizon has to be long-term and the plan has to involve us, the european union, and the regional partners. we europeans must learn from our mistakes and omissions after the fall of gaddafi and we must be fully committed to the security of libya. this means assuming that it is our responsibility and our interest to invest in security sector reform and the social integration of militias, in the protection of critical infrastructure. without this, no political strategy can revive democratic governance in libya. there will be no point in missions centred on border security.
the peace agreement is essential to ensure control of all mali's territory and to prevent the spread of the terrorist threat in the north of the country, which is fuelled and fuelled by the conflict between rebel forces and those loyal to bamako. the terrorist threat which, in order to derail the peace process, has struck miserably in recent days, claiming the lives of children, civilians, minusma peacekeepers and a security officer of the european delegation. it is necessary that all factions be represented in this peace agreement, including the tuareg community, and it is positive that the agreement organizes the transfer of autonomy to the north of the country and the strengthening of the representation of the northern communities in the national institutions. the political solution to the end of the armed conflict in mali must be based on an inclusive plan, representative of the diversity of society, so that it is sustainable and restores peace to the country. the security of mali is essential for the pacification of the whole of the sahel and for the eradication of the terrorist threat in the region, which is a breeding ground for violent insurgency and for the proliferation of organised crime which provides it with financial support, such as arms and drug trafficking. nothing will work if the peace plan and european action in mali do not integrate a regional perspective, taking into account the links to the crises in the central african republic, libya and nigeria. and finally, nothing will work without european support for good governance and institutional capacity building and development in mali.
madam president, madam minister, i would like to congratulate you on the timely signing of the above-mentioned memorandum of understanding. moreover, this strengthening of cooperation and strategic dialogue, based on the sharing of experience, information and best practice, will naturally result in the creation of institutional contact points to coordinate joint action in the desired intensification of mutual consultations, as well as in the establishment of joint working groups. i also believe that this signature marks an important step forward in the implementation of the un global strategy to combat terrorism, which i would like to stress, since it is precisely through the creation of partnerships on an increasingly global scale and by involving more and more of the existing regional organisations that we can move towards the effective implementation of this global strategy, which aims to act on an extremely complex, constantly changing reality, and which is increasingly better equipped in financial, logistical and technological terms. finally, i believe that, within the framework of the european strategy to combat terrorism, greater coordination should also be promoted between the member states, eurojust and europol, and especially in operational terms.
in writing. history shows us that the path to tolerance in europe has been a long and winding one, of delicate balances and small steps forward. religious intolerance in particular fills much of the darkest pages of our history. today, fortunately, 28 peoples united in diversity give shape to a territory founded on tolerance and which does not tolerate any encroachment on that freedom. recent attacks in paris have threatened another pillar of our community: freedom of expression. these were not attacks in the name of faith, perpetrated by muslims or jews, these were criminal acts perpetrated by radicals. we cannot allow these acts to poison our most fundamental values. as the king of jordan reminded us, the future is built on unity and respect, not division and stereotypes. the union and its political actors, but also the member states and their governments, have special responsibilities. the discourse must be about respect and tolerance for minorities, and concrete action: in awareness raising, education, prevention and sanctioning. we must not take anything for granted, but on the contrary, be aware that the preservation of our values requires constant work.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european fisheries fund, which would be the first step towards the creation of a european fisheries fund. as you know, we are very critical of this approach. the resolution begins by considering and well the lack of scientific information on robalo and calls on the commission and the member states to carry out an assessment of the resource. we can't agree more. we also appreciate other positive aspects of this resolution, such as the reference to the importance of local management, which takes account of the diversity of situations at regional level. but despite this, general considerations are being advanced and, as of now, management measures at european level are apparently contradictory to these principles and seem to ignore the diversity of existing situations. the amendments which we have tabled here - and which we hope will be supported by you - seek to eliminate these apparent contradictions by favouring management measures which are undoubtedly necessary but which are tailored to each specific need.
mr president, the commercial fisheries in portugal show relative stability in the discharge of wild sea bass from year to year and this fish retains a good commercial value. the stability of the volume of fish caught could be an indication of its sustainability, but as in other regions of europe, there is no scientific knowledge to certify the state of the portuguese watershed and the amounts of annual fisheries are not even measured in terms of catches per unit of effort, but as an overall value. the opinions of the scientific bodies point to the need for specific management objectives, based on the best science, and are supported by the regional fisheries advisory councils. recent decoding of the robal genome has made it possible to identify two distinct populations of robal in the atlantic and the mediterranean. the complexity of the situation and the need to maintain sustainable water sources accessible to two distinct and sometimes competing fishing activities, commercial fishing and recreational fishing, therefore require comprehensive, pan-european and integrative regulation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of combating violations of any rights. it is by preventing these violations and by repressing the violators of rights. the fight against poverty is the main way of preventing human rights violations. it is in poverty that the greatest victims of human rights are found. it is in poverty that some of the greatest violators of these rights are recruited. the european union must also take action to combat poverty and human rights violations. but violations are also fought by repression, and for that we need to strengthen the authority of the international criminal court. let no rapist be left alone after committing these heinous crimes, especially crimes against humanity, crimes of torture or genocide. strengthening the authority and action of the international criminal court is absolutely essential to this task.
i would like to begin by quoting a statement that has appeared today in the french press, a statement by a christian woman, a syrian refugee in lebanon named rafa el-nawfali, who said: the fighters of the islamic state have no religion. they seek to eradicate the other, the one who is different from them, whether christian or muslim. this is the brand of the islamic state today. it means a profound civilizational setback. and this civilizational backsliding, this threat, is a threat that has to be fought. christians mean and represent the other, radical to them, and in attacking christians they also naturally aim to especially outrage western public opinion. but we must never lose sight of the fact that it is christians and muslims who are involved, and that the first victims are the people of all those regions. and that requires a clear political response. and that political response has to have two components, a diplomatic component, but it also has to have a military component. we cannot ignore this reality and we must use all the political instruments at our disposal to combat this evil.
mr president, if there were coordination between the member states and the european union, we could do more and better to help the people of iraq and syria, who are at the mercy of the atrocities of the criminal gang calling itself the islamic state and who are causing a humanitarian catastrophe of biblical proportions in the region. we could be more effective in supporting the indispensable military campaign that the kurds are courageously waging to eradicate daesh from control of the cities and to stop the persecution of christian and yazidi, kurdish, shia and other minorities in the region, such as the hundreds of christians recently kidnapped. we could be more effective in supporting the organization of networks to free enslaved hostages, which include thousands of women and children. and i have spoken to other members, recently to young people who have managed to escape from mosul and who are in desperate need of medical and psychological support and who should be given priority in european aid. words and resolutions are not enough. we can be more effective in humanitarian and other aid, the aid that we pay for and that is desperately needed in iraq and syria, if it is properly coordinated, targeted to ensure that schools in refugee and displacement camps, for example, are functioning, and especially if we help the former pre-islamic communities in the region, who are now persecuted, to understand that there is a future for them in iraq and syria.
the abduction and recruitment of children to fight in the armed forces of the government and the opposition in south sudan, in a war that has dragged on for more than a year with successive failed peace agreements, constitutes a war crime and a crime against humanity, in addition to others committed since the beginning of the conflict, in a climate of impunity that the international community cannot tolerate any longer. the conduct of the peace negotiations by igad has failed, which is not surprising, because the countries in the region themselves have competing interests in the conflict, and mediators cannot be impartial. the un security council resolution, which calls for sanctions against leaders who obstruct the peace process, must be implemented immediately. the european union must help to enforce the arms embargo imposed by the security council and call for international scrutiny of the use of the proceeds of oil exploration in the country, which have been used to support the war effort. the european union and the member states should put pressure on the african union to take a stand and to publish the report of its commission of inquiry into south sudan. the massacred people of south sudan deserve justice, an end to war and impunity.
in writing. ‒ over the past few years, the human rights situation in russia has been deteriorating and the russian authorities have adopted a set of laws with ambiguous provisions, used to impose further restrictions on the opposition and civil society actors and to limit freedom of expression and assembly. since 1998 we have seen a growing number of politically motivated murders and suspicious deaths in russia, culminating recently with the murder of boris nemtsov near the kremlin two days before a demonstration he was organizing that was to take place on march 1, 2015. in view of the worrying situation in russia, i support the need for a firm, coherent and comprehensive eu policy towards russia, endorsed by the 28 member states, which links a strong common message on the role of human rights in eu-russia relations and the need to end the crackdown on freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia, as well as the immediate release of all political prisoners. i support the need for an independent international investigation into the murder of boris nemtsov.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree, in substance, with the content of the statement in its condemnation of the murder of boris nemtsov, a leading figure in the opposition to the putin government and former deputy prime minister of russia. the eu is concerned by the atmosphere of discrimination against political opponents, the erosion of fundamental values and the rule of law in russia and the increasing deprivation of fundamental freedoms felt by the russian people. it is therefore essential to take account of the economic, political and judicial crisis in the general situation in russia and, in so far as this declaration denounces all this, it has my vote in favour.
‒ the murder of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov is still not fully resolved, and an independent international investigation is urgently needed to find out what happened in this case. boris nemtsov was investigating russia's involvement in the conflict in eastern ukraine and was assassinated near the kremlin two days before a demonstration he was organizing against this conflict. five men have been arrested, but it remains to be seen if any of them were responsible for the deadly shootings. i pay tribute to boris nemtsov and regret that some meps and diplomats were prevented from entering russia, which prevented them from attending boris nemtsov's funeral. in the interests of freedom and democracy, human rights and peace, it is essential that the russian authorities put an end to all acts of pressure, repression and intimidation against opposition leaders, representatives of civil society and the media.
in the light of the recent events in ukraine, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in ukraine, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. once again, the systematic and unacceptable attitude of interference in relations with third countries, in this case russia, is permeated throughout the resolution. attempts or actual interventions at national level to politically destabilise and bring the target countries into line with the eu's strategic interests, notably by creating and financing ngos, are also present. the resolution explicitly seeks to reinforce the policy of encirclement and provocation against the russian federation. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it important that an independent international inquiry be launched into the murder of boris nemtsov, who was investigating russia's involvement in the conflict in eastern ukraine and who was assassinated near the kremlin two days before a demonstration he was organising against this conflict. five men have been arrested, but it remains to be seen if any of them were responsible for the deadly shootings. i also deplore the refusal to allow some meps and diplomats into russia, which prevented them from attending the funeral of boris nemtsov.
‒ boris nemtsov, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation, a prominent reformer of post-soviet russian society and economy and one of the leaders of russia's liberal and democratic opposition, was assassinated near the kremlin two days before a demonstration he was organizing against the effects of the economic crisis and conflict in ukraine. in the weeks before his assassination, boris nemtsov was investigating russia's involvement in the donbass conflict and intended to publish a report on the subject. russia, as a full member of the council of europe and a signatory to the united nations declaration, has committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. however, several trials and court proceedings have called into question the independence and impartiality of the judicial bodies of russia. on the other hand, the political climate that the russian authorities have created has prepared a fertile ground for such murders. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for an independent international investigation into the assassination and reiterates the need for a firm, coherent and comprehensive eu policy towards russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the epp resolution condemning the murder of boris nemtsov, who was shot dead near the kremlin in an area equipped with video cameras, police and security services, and who is the most significant political assassination in recent russian history, whose murder has special features because he was a prominent opposition leader and a prominent critic of president vladimir putin and the war in ukraine. he advocated a more democratic, prosperous and open russia and strong partnership relations with its neighbours and global partners. all of this makes it important to call for an independent international investigation into this murder. finally, i leave my support to the democratic forces in russia, which are committed to a more open society and a reformist agenda.
‒ a free and democratic society should not fear freedom of expression and association. a free and democratic society must learn to live with a critical opposition and independent media. the murder or imprisonment of opposition politicians, always in unclear circumstances, threatens to become a cash cow in russia. the european union's position must be clear in condemning such procedures and calling for greater transparency and independence in the investigation of such cases.
in writing. ‒ boris nemtsov, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation, former governor of nizhny novgorod, was assassinated near the kremlin two days before a demonstration he was organizing, which was to be held on march 1, 2015, against the effects of the economic crisis and the conflict in ukraine. we deplore this cold-blooded murder, we repudiate these methods and condemn their perpetrators. we call for a full investigation that can reveal the motives and the authors with the aim of a complete clarification. we do not support those who try to draw conclusions in advance, in accordance with the interests they defend, without even waiting for the conclusions of investigations which they claim are false from the outset. russia should be an indispensable partner for the eu. it is therefore in the eu's interest to engage in dialogue with this important country and to contribute to peace in the region.
in the light of the recent events in ukraine, the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country, to take a decision on the situation in the country. we consider unacceptable the systemic interference that the ep and the eu allow themselves in their relations with third countries, in this case russia, with attempts or actual interventions at national level to destabilise politically and bring the targeted countries into line with the eu's strategic interests, in particular by creating and financing ngos. in this case, it is explicitly a matter of reinforcing the policy of encirclement and provocation against the russian federation. it is up to the judicial authorities of this country to investigate the crime of nemtsov's murder without outside interference. we voted against it.
‒ this report clearly demonstrates the importance of developing a coherent foreign and security policy, based on a common vision of interests, values and objectives. it also advocates an integrated approach, covering the various policies with an external impact. i share this view and i consider it essential, in line with the report, that the union should not shrink from seeking to play a role in shaping international policy. it is also emphasised that the report clearly shows the importance of a strong foreign policy for an effective immigration policy. it therefore stresses the urgency of putting an end to the tragedy which is taking place on europe's doorstep, particularly on the central and eastern borders of the mediterranean. i therefore supported the adoption of this report.
‒ the 2014 annual report takes stock of a worsening security environment around the eu, especially in the european neighbourhood policy countries. at the same time, it states that 'the international law-based order, the stability and security of europe are being challenged at a level unprecedented since the beginning of the european integration process'. the lack of coordination of eu security and defence policies is compounded by a diminishing influence of europe in the world and its capacity to assert itself as the guarantor of world security. 'the report calls for a policy based on a common vision of european interests, values and objectives, improving the capacity of self-defence to deal with the growing unconventional external threats. the role of the enp in the rule of law and economic development in the eu periphery is welcomed, as are democratisation and peacekeeping actions under the common security and defence policy. i support an eu as a more credible and prepared actor in conflict resolution, both in its immediate neighbourhood and globally, and as a reflection of european values of human dignity and the rule of law in the world.
in writing. ‒ the security environment around the eu has been deteriorating, with europe's stability and security constantly being challenged at an unprecedented level. i cannot therefore fail to express my concern, also because of the internal crisis, that the eu has not yet been able to use all its potential to find a more favourable political environment and international security more in line with european values. i believe it is important to protect european values and interests and to implement the political and legal order in europe, improving its contribution to the territorial defence of its member states and the security of its citizens. the eu should also play an important role in conflict resolution and in strengthening, together with partners, the pluralistic and rules-based global political, economic and financial order, including respect for the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. this report assumes that the security of the eu and its member states and neighbouring countries is being threatened by russia and that a transformation of the global political order is taking place. according to the report, the eu has not been able to act adequately due to a lack of political coordination and coherence between eu policies, but also due to financial constraints. it stressed the need to equip the eu and the member states with defence capabilities and to deepen the common security and defence policy with nato. it reads: deepen the militarisation of the eu. we obviously voted against it. we reject the eu as an imperialist political-military bloc whose so-called 'external' policy responds to the objectives of economic domination of big european capital and the main imperialist powers of the continent, creating better conditions for the appropriation of markets, resources and trade routes. we need democratic ruptures in the eu, we need a process of demilitarisation and disarmament, the dissolution of nato and the creation of a collective security system which respects and ensures the sovereignty of states and the free choice of peoples.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree in general with the neighbourhood policies advocated in it.
‒ this resolution concerns the annual report to the european parliament by the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the redefinition of the eu's foreign policy. the main priorities set are the protection of european values, the implementation of structural reforms with a view to greater policy coordination, support for security, democratisation, the rule of law and economic and social development in the eu's neighbourhood. the rapporteur proposes two approaches to neighbourhood policy, depending on the region: the commission is proposing an ambitious approach based on european perspectives; the south is proposing a framework for cooperation more focused on the major challenges facing the region. in this respect, it seems to me that we should strive for a single enp for all our neighbours, both east and south, especially since we have a pivotal area which is both east and mediterranean, and in which these two components can therefore be mixed. it would, of course, be a flexible policy, with varying degrees of relationship and cooperation with each country, but where equal political priority and equal opportunities would be given to the south and the east. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it draws attention to the dramatic deterioration of the security environment around the eu, in particular in its immediate neighbourhood, where the international law-based order, stability and security of europe are being challenged at an unprecedented level. i also believe it is important to promote the development of the industrial and technological resources needed to improve cybersecurity. it is imperative that the eu and its member states show solidarity and speak with one voice against russia. close coordination between the eu and the us and with the participation of major powers (such as russia and china) is essential, a strategy that encourages regional actors (including turkey, iraq, israel, jordan, egypt, the governments of the gulf cooperation council, iran, the arab league and kurdish forces) to come together to put an end to the wars. i also think it is appropriate to draw attention to the fact that energy is increasingly being used as an instrument of foreign policy and that european integration is based on cooperation in this field too.
‒ threats to the security of the european union and its member states have been constant. some structures created prove insufficient to respond to the present environment. in this respect, it is a matter of priority to rethink the existing structures in such a way as to protect european values and interests and to implement the political and legal order in europe in such a way as to guarantee peace and stability. it is important that the eu supports security not only in its member states but also in neighbouring states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament on the annual report by the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, because i consider it to be a rigorous document which is competent in defining the priorities of the european union in the field of foreign policy. i stress the importance of unequivocal cooperation between the eu and the member states in political, economic, financial and defence resources in order to ensure peace and stability in europe and the world through a more proactive approach and consistency with foreign and security policy. i think it is essential, as the rapporteur has said, that there should be a reform of european policies on migration, a european strategy on energy security and two other strategies to reinvigorate the european political and legal order and the world order.
‒ we note with concern the dramatic deterioration of the security environment around the eu, in particular in its immediate neighbourhood, where the international law-based order, stability and security of europe are being challenged at a level unprecedented since the beginning of the european integration process. we are concerned that the eu, also because of its internal crisis, has not put its potential to promote dialogue and political solutions to the fore. we are concerned, rather, about the use of a bellicose discourse, often backed by nato and the united states, which not only does not serve the interests of the eu but also contributes to exacerbating conflicts and to turning away from any political solution based on dialogue and international law. this latest episode of interest in a european army is itself indicative of what the eu thinks about its foreign policy.
‒ this report is based on the assumption that the security of the eu and its member states and neighbouring countries is being threatened by russia and that a transformation of the global political order is taking place. according to the report, the eu has not been able to act adequately due to a lack of political coordination and coherence between eu policies, but also due to financial constraints. it stressed the need to build up the eu and its member states' defence capabilities and to deepen the common security and defence policy with nato. we reject the eu being and strengthening itself as an imperialist political-military bloc whose so-called 'foreign' policy responds to the objectives of economic domination of big european capital and the main imperialist powers of the continent by creating better conditions for the appropriation of markets, resources and trade routes. there must be democratic ruptures in the eu, a process of demilitarisation and disarmament must be initiated, nato must be dissolved and a collective security system must be created which respects and ensures the sovereignty of states and the free choice of peoples. we voted against it.
‒ the proclamation of the principle of the universality of human rights is a civilizational advance and is probably the main legacy of modern european and western thought to the world, which greatly increases our obligations in this field. a foreign policy which does not incorporate the question of respect for human rights as a central concern would be too cynical in relation to the values which must constantly inspire us. that is why i shall be voting in favour of this report. because it means the realisation of one of the greatest commitments of our european project: the commitment to promote the safeguarding of human rights in all parts of the world. it is in this pact that the whole question is at its heart, and that is why the principle of the universality of human rights cannot be accompanied by any idea of cultural relativism or political relativism, which, if taken into account, would call them into question altogether.
‒ this annual report of parliament has been an important instrument for the european parliament's assessment of human rights. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it gives a correct assessment of the world - and of the union - in 2013. it also calls for solutions to make the european union a beacon of human rights in the world. we need not only greater coherence between internal and external approaches but also mechanisms that make the union's external human rights policy more effective. in line with what i have been advocating up to now, i particularly appreciated the section on asylum and migration. it is imperative to save the thousands of lives that - already in 2013 - stained the mediterranean with death. we cannot tolerate human rights violations in the reception of asylum seekers and the treatment of refugees either. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively.
‒ i believe in the eu's role in conducting a common foreign and security policy guided by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights. in addition, the eu has obligations in terms of its commitments to its charter of fundamental rights and to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.' the report is in line with these principles in substance and sets out strategies for their respect and implementation in the world, denouncing human rights violations and promoting the eu's role as a credible and strengthened actor in promoting human rights, democracy, peace and economic prosperity, especially in its immediate vicinity, and therefore received my positive vote.
‒ strengthening the union's commitments to conduct a common foreign and security policy guided by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and the principle of the promotion of international law and justice are some of the premises of the european treaty. it is becoming, for me, essential that all eu institutions and all member states confirm the priority of human rights in the eu's relations with third countries, including its strategic partners, and in all high-level statements and meetings. it is also important that the member states speak with one voice in favour of the indivisibility, inviolability and universality of human rights and, in particular, the ratification of all international human rights instruments created under the auspices of the united nations.
‒ the report addresses some aspects which merit our agreement. however, it is essentially characterised by a manipulative and reductive view of human rights - political, social, economic and cultural - using them as an element of interference and political pressure on some states, where the so-called 'friendly' countries are safeguarded (by omission) and the 'other' countries are criticised, always in accordance with the interests and conveniences of the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all with eu and us coverage. in contrast to the principles and objectives which the report proclaims as the inspiration for eu policies, in the face of the analysis expressed there, in a clear exercise of hypocrisy, the policies imposed on the peoples of europe and the world by the eu and the us, which have contributed to the increase in inequalities, poverty, unemployment and job insecurity, exploitation and hunger, along with the withdrawal of rights, freedoms and guarantees, deserve reference. we disagree with the unconditional support for the icc. for these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i disagree with the way some issues are dealt with here. in particular, recommendations for the adoption of quotas for women and issues related to free access to voluntary termination of pregnancy.
‒ this proposal is to examine the european union's policy on human rights and the establishment of democracy in the world in 2013. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential that human rights play a central role in the european union's external policies and that the eu itself should take a more central and determined position in improving the rights, freedoms and guarantees of its citizens. however, i voted against the proposal for a 'safe and legal termination of pregnancy' because i believe that preventive measures, family planning and the availability of contraceptive methods to prevent pregnancy should be adopted first, thus protecting the safeguarding of human rights.
‒ the eu's common foreign and security policy must be guided by the defence of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity. the report stresses, however, that more than half the world's population still lives under undemocratic regimes and that in recent years global freedom has declined and numerous human rights violations have been recorded. in this context, it urged the eu institutions and the member states to give human rights a priority in their relations with third countries. to this end, it urges the eu to integrate human rights and democracy effectively into development cooperation. it also condemned all forms of violence and discrimination on grounds of ideology, religion or belief and called for the recognition of the inalienable rights of women to physical integrity. the rapporteur makes reference to the right of women to a legal termination of pregnancy. this is an aspect with which i disagree, and i would point out that this is a matter for the member states. however, in view of the importance of the issues raised in this resolution, i voted in favour.
‒ the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 reveals that there is still much work to be done, particularly with regard to eu intervention. however, small steps have been taken towards the realisation of human rights, not only in the eu's external policies but also in its internal ones. it is important that human rights be a primary objective of all eu institutions and all its member states.
‒ this resolution on the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 contains several considerations on which i reflect, since i consider that the promotion of human rights in the eu's relations with third countries is of fundamental importance and one of the most noble functions of the european institutions. and in this respect, the european parliament has played a crucial role throughout its history, of which the sakharov prize for freedom of thought is only one of its many most visible faces. however, i would point out that it is not feasible to introduce binding, enforceable and non-negotiable human rights clauses in all international agreements. such a proposal would inhibit the conclusion of agreements with countries which do not have human rights standards as high as those of the union and is not the proper and specific scope of european external trade policy. that said, and like another report voted on at this sitting (a8-0015/2015), the vote on a set of amendments/separate votes failed to remove a number of considerations contained in the final report, in particular in its article 136, and i therefore voted against the final report.
in writing. ‒ the new vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (vp/hr) stated that human rights will be one of her top priorities and that she intends to use them as a reference point in all her relations with third countries; that she also reiterated the eu's commitment to promoting human rights in all areas of external relations 'without any exception'; and that the adoption of the new eu action plan on human rights and democracy and the renewal of the mandate of the eu special representative for human rights will be on the eu agenda in early 2015. in this connection, it is worth asking what will happen to the various partnership agreements that the eu has with various countries where human rights are trampled on every day. the most glaring example is israel. but there are other examples, such as morocco or ukraine, where the banning of a political party is currently under way.
in writing. the report contains aspects with which we agree, but it is essentially characterised by a manipulative and reductive view of human rights - political, social, economic and cultural - using them as an element of interference and political pressure on some states, where the so-called 'friendly' countries are protected (by omission) and the 'other' countries are criticised, always in the interests and conveniences of the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all with eu and us coverage. in contrast to the principles and objectives which the resolution proclaims as guiding the eu's policies, in the face of the analysis expressed there, in a clear exercise of hypocrisy, are the policies imposed on the peoples of europe and the world, by the eu and the us, which have contributed to the increase of inequalities, poverty, unemployment and job insecurity, exploitation and hunger, along with the withdrawal of rights, freedoms and guarantees. we disagree with the unconditional support for the icc. for these and other reasons, we voted against.
‒ this resolution highlights two principles which i consider to be fundamental in the fight against terrorism: transparency and respect for fundamental rights. as far as the union's internal policies are concerned, i have always defended the same principles - often against the tide. on the one hand, whatever the instrument, it must be subject to transparent democratic control. on the other hand, we cannot, under any circumstances, protect our most fundamental values by putting those values at risk. the memorandum of understanding signed on 19 january between the eu and the arab league is intended to - and does - act on one of the aspects of the fight against terrorism: cooperation with third countries. it remains to be scrutinized democratically.
we condemn terrorism unequivocally and strongly. in doing so, we cannot fail to denounce and condemn the role that the usa, but also the eu, have always played and are playing in creating, encouraging and financing terrorist groups. groups that have served and serve their geostrategic interests, their expansionist and imperial drive for world domination. especially in countries whose governments are not aligned with the interests of this us-eu axis. we strongly condemn the policies of alliances with states with authoritarian and repressive regimes of the league of arab states, some of which are direct warring actors in border conflicts that keep regional tension high. we reiterate our understanding that the policies of terror and hatred are motivated, amplified and stimulated by the policies and interventions of imperialism, with the aggressions and interferences carried out in numerous countries. we must demand full respect for international law, the un charter, national sovereignty, freedom and the interests of peoples. this is essential to stop the culture that fosters terrorism. we obviously voted against this resolution.
‒ terrorism and violent extremism pose serious threats to security and freedoms worldwide and respect for fundamental rights is an essential factor in the success of counter-terrorism policies. terrorism is a global threat that must be countered by the combined efforts of national governments and regional and international organisations. only a global alliance can effectively address this threat, acting in full compliance with international law, fundamental values and international human rights standards. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, and the secretary-general of the league of arab states, nabil el araby, signed a memorandum of understanding in january 2015 to strengthen relations between the two sides. the challenges we face today are global, and they require global responses. for this reason, i am in favour of this agreement, which aims to strengthen cooperation in political and security terms, particularly in the fight against terrorism and the exchange of information, early warning and the fight against transnational crime. we must be able to stop the advance of the islamic state and not allow a climate of fear to take hold in europe. we should exchange more information about the fighters from europe. we must not surrender to the terrorists.
‒ eu-arab league relations are based on the memorandum of understanding (mou) of 19 january 2015 between federica mogherini, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, and nabil elaraby, secretary-general of the league of arab states (las), on combating terrorism. terrorism poses a serious threat to security and freedoms, and a global alliance can deal effectively with this threat. this resolution considers that the eu and the lea have a common interest in finding lasting solutions to ensure regional peace and stability. it also stressed the importance of cooperation on humanitarian aid issues through the exchange of information on crisis situations. it also welcomes the establishment of a strategic dialogue between the eu and the lea on political and security issues and commends the progress made in the field of early warning and response to crisis situations. it also called for the publication of the emu so that its contents could be subject to democratic and judicial scrutiny. i voted in favour.
‒ this document welcomes the memorandum of understanding between the eu and the league of arab states. it is essential that both cooperate in areas of common interest, based on the principles of mutual trust and mutual benefit. in order to make it clear that all acts of terrorism are reprehensible and that joint cooperation is of the utmost importance in combating this phenomenon, particularly with regard to the threat posed by terrorist groups and foreign fighters, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ first of all, as i said in the plenary, i would like to congratulate you on the timely signing of the memorandum of understanding which gave rise to this resolution. i believe that this strengthening of cooperation and strategic dialogue, based on the sharing of experience, information and best practice, will naturally result in the creation of institutional contact points to coordinate joint action, the intensification of mutual consultations and the establishment of joint working groups. i would also like to stress the important step taken in implementing the un global strategy to combat terrorism, because it is precisely through the creation of partnerships on an increasingly global scale and involving more and more regional organisations that we are moving towards the effective implementation of this strategy, which aims to act on an extremely complex, constantly changing and increasingly well equipped reality in financial, logistical and technological terms. i also believe that we should use this memorandum to act directly on the fight against terrorism in the countries of origin, transit and destination of many terrorists and to promote greater coordination between the member states, eurojust and europol, especially in operational terms.
‒ in theory, cooperation and partnership between the eu and third countries to fight terrorism and to work closely with regional actors such as the african union, the gulf cooperation council and the league of arab states, as well as the united nations and in particular its counter-terrorism committee, is positive. we recall, however, that counter-terrorism measures must never be abused to repress legitimate governments or violate the universal human rights of citizens. unfortunately, recent history is full of examples of countries which no longer serve the interests of the united states or the eu, but instead become friends and enemies, as if by spontaneous generation, popular demonstrations followed by armed actions with highly sophisticated weapons, without knowing how they got there, with instructions and all. we fear that this report is just another display of hypocrisy designed to soothe consciences but leaving everything as it is.
in the same way, the european union and the united states have always played a role in creating, encouraging and financing terrorist groups which, by destabilising the social and political situation in states with progressive policies or not aligned with them, have served the expansionist interests of imperialism and its desire to dominate the world. we strongly condemn the eu's policies of alliances and funding of states with authoritarian and repressive regimes of the league of arab states, some of which are direct warring actors in border conflicts that keep regional tension high. we reiterate our understanding that the policies of terror and hatred are motivated, amplified and encouraged by the dominant political lines and that only a radical change in the international political framework, the establishment of democratic and progressive regimes, respect for and defence of national sovereignty, freedom and the interests of the peoples, can open the way to peace. we voted against it.
‒ this diploma sets out measures to maintain stocks above minimum conservation levels for the species. robalo is a noble species, highly sought after by the fishing industry because of its important economic value, but it is also of late maturity and slow growth, so the situation of the stocks is, according to some studies, 'concerned'. the resolution therefore calls on the member states to assess the state of the stock of sea bass by using the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides for considerable funding for the collection of scientific data. finally, the fixing of total allowable catches, always taking into account mitigating factors and the historical fishing quotas of each country, should be introduced in order to achieve the maximum possible fishing yield within a sustainable framework.
‒ scientific information on the state of the stock of robalo is insufficient, in particular data are not available on its precise demarcation, migration routes and breeding sites, and there are several studies demonstrating that the state of the stock of robalo is worrying. mortality is still very high and robalo is a late-maturing, slow-growing species. recovery of this population unit requires a long period of time. i agree that the status of the stock of redfish and its demarcation, the migration of the species and the exact breeding sites should be assessed and that measures should be suggested for the management of the redfish fishery at european level in order to safeguard this species.
‒ fisheries management measures are often implemented in a top-down approach, supported by a lack of scientific knowledge, distanced from regional specificities, indifferent to the involvement of the sector and communities, their contributions and, as such, the impacts that these measures may have. this is an approach which we have distanced ourselves from and which we cannot but criticise, as we have always done. we appreciate that the resolution recognises the need for proper resource assessment, filling in the knowledge gaps on european robalo populations. we also welcome other aspects of this resolution, such as the reference to the importance of local government, which takes account of the diversity of situations at regional level, especially as a result of the amendments we have tabled. however, the resolution ends up being somewhat contradictory, recommending the imposition of transversal management measures at european level. these measures are contrary to the principle of regionalisation and ignore the diversity of situations. we regret that the amendments which we tabled were not accepted in plenary and which sought to address these concerns by removing the obvious contradictions and favouring management measures adapted to each specific situation.
in writing. ‒ the commission and the member states should assess the status of the robalo stock and its demarcation, the migration of the species and the exact breeding sites. the commission and the member states should build on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides for considerable funding for the collection of scientific data. we must impose management measures at european level for the fishing of sea bass in order to safeguard this species. these measures should take due account of scientific knowledge, promote local management and also take into account the principle of regionalisation. only then will sustainable and profitable exploitation of this important fishery be possible.
‒ scientific information on the status of the robalo stocks is insufficient, in particular the data available on their precise demarcation, migration routes and breeding sites. however, several studies have shown that the situation of the robalo stocks is worrying. mortality is very high and the robalo is a late-maturing and slow-growing species, and recovery of this population unit requires a long period of time. this resolution therefore calls on the commission and the member states to assess the status of the robalo stock and its demarcation, the migration of the species and the exact breeding sites. it also considered that management measures at european level for the fishing of sea bass were necessary to safeguard the species, which included the establishment of a multiannual sea bass management plan to restore the stock to a level above the maximum sustainable yield. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives some indications relating to the protection of the oak. several studies show that the situation of the stock of red seabream is worrying, despite the emergency measures already taken by the commission. it is urgent that the commission and the member states assess the status of the stock of sea bass and its demarcation, the migration of the species and the exact breeding sites in order to protect this species by drawing on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides for considerable funding for the collection of scientific data. management measures should be imposed at european level for the fishing of red seabream in order to safeguard it and restore the population unity to acceptable levels.
‒ with the necessary scientific justification, it is urgent to reconcile economic interests with the safeguarding of the species.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes note of the lack of scientific information on robalo and calls on the commission and the member states to carry out an assessment of the resource. we also appreciate other positive aspects of this resolution, such as the reference to the importance of local management, which takes account of the diversity of situations at regional level. but despite this, general considerations are being advanced and, as of now, management measures at european level are apparently contradictory to these principles and seem to ignore the diversity of existing situations. the amendments which we have tabled here - and which we hope will be supported by you - seek to eliminate these apparent contradictions by favouring management measures which are undoubtedly necessary but which are adapted to each specific situation.
in writing. ‒ portugal is, for the first time, since january 2015 and until december 2017, a member of the united nations human rights council. for me, as the representative of the portuguese people, and for the portuguese republic, this report is of great importance. portugal aligns itself with the main recommendations of this report at the thematic level and has already committed itself to presenting, as author, resolutions on economic, social and cultural rights, as well as the elimination of violence against women, the elimination of all forms of discrimination and the protection of the most vulnerable persons and groups and the rights of the child. the report also calls for a strong and concerted eu position on the rights of refugees and migrants and the new challenges to freedom of expression in the online world. i therefore voted in favour of this joint resolution.
‒ respect for, promotion of and safeguarding the universality of human rights are part of the european union's legal and ethical acquis and constitute one of the foundations of european unity and integrity. human rights are rights inherent in all human beings, regardless of nationality, race, sex, ethnic origin, religion or any other status. failure to comply with them and the absence of legitimate democratic participation lead to instability and are the cause of failed states, humanitarian crises and armed conflicts. i therefore welcome the eu's priorities for the upcoming 28th ordinary session of the un human rights council, as well as the appointment of ambassador joachim rücker as president of the human rights council in 2015.
‒ these debates are commonplace in parliament on the occasion of the un human rights council. the debate highlights the instrumental and restrictive view of human rights which is the view of the majority of this parliament. once again, you didn't get away with it. in sharp contrast to the priorities and objectives proclaimed in the resolution, in a clear exercise of hypocrisy, there are the policies imposed on the peoples of europe and the world by the eu and the usa, which have contributed to the increase of inequalities, poverty, unemployment and precarious employment, exploitation and hunger, along with the withdrawal of rights, freedoms and guarantees. on the other hand, as regards the eu's priorities by country, there are glaring omissions and responsibilities which we would like to recall here: - the illegal occupation of western sahara by morocco; - the illegal occupation of part of the territory of cyprus by turkey; - the serious humanitarian situation in the gaza strip, alongside the belligerent occupation of palestinian territory by israel; - the criminal blockade of cuba and the increasingly unacceptable common position of the eu; - the responsibilities of the eu and the us in the situation in several countries of the middle east.
‒ respect for, promotion of and safeguarding the universality of human rights are part of the european union's legal and ethical acquis and constitute one of the foundations of european unity and integrity. human rights are rights inherent in all human beings, irrespective of nationality, race, sex, ethnic origin, religion or any other status, and respect for these rights is enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights, the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights and subsequent international human rights conventions, declarations and resolutions. i therefore endorse the eu priorities for the upcoming 28th ordinary session of the united nations human rights council (unhrc) as set out in the council conclusions of 9 february 2015. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution identifying the union's priorities for the 28th session of the united nations human rights council. the importance of the european union in supporting the implementation of human rights is, for me, essential. in this document we talk about civil and political rights, social and economic rights, human rights, women's rights, children's rights, the rights of lgbti people, climate change, the fight against impunity, the rights of minorities. i could name some of the countries here, but i will not do so, because the full achievement and safeguarding of human rights is a goal that is still far from being achieved.
‒ this resolution concerns the eu priorities for the 28th ordinary session of the united nations human rights council (unhrc), as set out in the council conclusions of 9 february 2015. respect for, promotion of and safeguarding the universality of human rights are part of the european union's legal and ethical acquis and constitute one of the foundations of european unity and integrity. regular sessions of the human rights council, the appointment of special rapporteurs, the universal periodic review mechanism and the special procedures designed to address specific country situations or thematic issues contribute to the promotion and respect of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. this resolution therefore advocates the importance of sending parliamentary delegations to the three sessions of the human rights council and to the other relevant sessions of the united nations general assembly in order to find ways of supporting countries in fulfilling their human rights obligations. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i support a strong multilateral human rights system under the aegis of the united nations. i agree that we must strengthen support for civil society organisations and human rights defenders, allowing them to carry out their activities without fear, so that we can jointly tackle the humanitarian crisis we have been witnessing. it is a priority to ensure that fundamental rights such as freedom of expression are guaranteed and to condemn any act of violence, whether it is perpetrated by extremist groups in the name of religion or by governments using the death penalty and acts of torture.
‒ we consider that all states have an obligation to respect the fundamental rights of their peoples and a duty to take concrete measures to facilitate respect for these rights at national level, as well as to cooperate at international level with a view to eliminating obstacles to the realization of human rights in all areas. we find that, unfortunately, some of the current members of the human rights council are recognised as being among the worst human rights offenders, have a negative record in terms of cooperation with the un special procedures and in fulfilling their reporting obligations to the un treaty bodies on human rights. we are supporting the report in defence of political rights, in defence of immigrants and of all the most disadvantaged sections of society. we are supporting the death penalty. we regret that social and labour rights, the violation of which is the precursor to the violation of other fundamental rights, are not given due weight in this report.
‒ the resolution adopted by the ep states that human rights civil, political, economic, social or cultural are indivisible, interrelated and interdependent, and that the deprivation of any of these rights has a direct and negative impact on third parties. it also considered that all states had an obligation to respect the fundamental rights of their populations. in contrast to the priorities and objectives proclaimed in the resolution, in a manifest exercise of hypocrisy, there are the policies imposed on the peoples of europe and the world by the eu and the usa, which have contributed to the increase of inequalities, poverty, unemployment and precarious employment, exploitation and hunger, along with the withdrawal of rights, freedoms and guarantees. on the other hand, as regards the eu's priorities by country, unacceptable situations of human rights violations are omitted, such as the aggression against the sarawi people and the illegal occupation of western sahara by morocco, the illegal occupation of part of the territory of cyprus by turkey, the serious humanitarian situation in the gaza strip, alongside the belligerent occupation of palestinian territory by israel, the criminal blockade of cuba or the responsibilities of the eu and the us in the situation in several countries in the middle east.
‒ respect for, promotion of and safeguarding of human rights are one of the foundations of the unity and integrity of peoples. human rights are rights inherent in all human beings. the failure to respect human rights and the absence of legitimate democratic participation lead to instability and are at the root of failed states, humanitarian crises and armed conflicts. unfortunately, this is the situation in venezuela. human rights violations, restrictions on freedom of assembly, escalation of acts of intimidation and ill-treatment of opposition leaders and students participating in the 2014 demonstrations, arbitrary detention of opposition leaders, political persecution, failure to respect constitutional norms and international obligations. only respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, constructive and respectful dialogue can help venezuela to emerge from this serious crisis and overcome future difficulties. it is therefore crucial that the so-called 'table of dialogue' between the government and the opposition is resumed; that the venezuelan government ends political persecution, repression of the opposition and censorship of the media and proceeds to the immediate release of all political prisoners and all peaceful protesters and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained.
‒ this report has had my assistance in its preparation and aims to draw attention to the following factors as relevant to the current venezuelan political situation: the arrest of the mayor of caracas, antonio ledezma, some considerations of the international community on civil liberties, the use of firearms in the control of demonstrations, the procedural rights of the accused, the accelerated inflation of basic commodities, the eu's responsibility in the framework of the un security council, the pre-election period as an opportunity to start a constructive dialogue. in this context, it reiterates its call on the vp/hr to call for the immediate release of the demonstrators who have been arbitrarily detained since the beginning of the protest demonstrations, and also invites the eeas and the eu delegation to venezuela, as well as the embassies of the member states, to continue to monitor the investigations and court hearings of the opposition leaders. it reiterated its call for an ad hoc delegation from the european parliament to be sent as soon as possible to assess the situation.
‒ the deterioration of the situation in venezuela, the worsening of the restrictions on freedom and democracy and the use of violence against protesters are matters of concern to me. the arrest of antónio ledezma is one of the signs that the conditions in that latin american country are not the best, since his arrest was made without any arrest warrant or any evidence of the commission of a crime. their being held in a military prison is incompatible with international standards and venezuela has an obligation to guarantee the life, humane treatment and safety of all persons deprived of their liberty, as well as to guarantee conditions of detention that are in line with international standards. the call for their release, as well as for all political prisoners, and their access to medical care is a cause i join. i also urge the venezuelan government to put an end to political persecution, the repression of the democratic opposition, the violations of freedom of expression and assembly and the censorship of the media.
‒ this resolution presents a biased view of the political and social situation in venezuela, distorting facts, omitting events, in a hateful register that seeks to justify the systematic interference and aggression that the us and eu have imposed on the venezuelan people for more than a decade. the systematic attempts to destabilize society and overthrow governments elected in successive elections, in a profound disregard for the will of the people and democracy, are hypocritically ignored, particularly through operations orchestrated and financed by the united states, such as operation jericho or the "la salida" plan, in which the extreme right takes a prominent role, along with the millions of dollars to finance political parties and anti-government organizations. the reality of events such as the arrest of antónio ledezma and the death of the young kluiverth roa is distorted, while the street clashes that have been continuously promoted by the reactionary forces since 2002, in which dozens of people have been killed and hundreds injured, are forgotten. the significant social development that is taking place in that country - increased social investment, a significant reduction in extreme poverty and malnutrition, illiteracy - is being suppressed at a rate that few, if any, of the countries that have signed this resolution will be able to keep up with. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. ‒ we are all deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation in venezuela and the use of violence against protesters. as a sign of goodwill, the venezuelan authorities should release immediately antonio ledezma, leopoldo lópez, daniel ceballos and all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and the exercise of fundamental rights in accordance with the calls made by various international organisations and the united nations, and the unfounded charges against them should be dropped. the venezuelan government must end political persecution, repression of the democratic opposition, violations of freedom of expression and demonstration and censorship of the media, the voice of the opposition is fundamental to a democratic society. venezuela must return to the path of democracy, or else it will be permanently isolated from the international community.
in writing. on 19 february 2015, antonio ledezma, democratically elected mayor of the caracas metropolitan area and one of the leaders of the opposition, was arbitrarily detained by heavily armed agents of the bolivarian intelligence service (sebin). this resolution recalls that the detention of civilians in a military prison is incompatible with international standards. in the past, the leaders of the democratic opposition have been repeatedly and unfoundedly accused of involvement in alleged destabilisation and coup plots. a democratic state cannot criminalise the leaders of the political opposition, but must ensure that all sectors of the population participate in the political life of the country and that the human rights of those in opposition are respected. the state's demonstrated inability to maintain law and order and the growing political polarization have turned venezuela into one of the most violent countries in the world. the resolution therefore considers that only respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, and constructive and respectful dialogue conducted in a spirit of tolerance, can help venezuela to emerge from this grave crisis and overcome future difficulties. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the deterioration of the situation in venezuela is of concern to anyone who is loyal to democratic principles and who defends human rights. the use of violence against protesters is unacceptable and the venezuelan authorities are called upon to release immediately all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and the exercise of fundamental rights as defended by the united nations. it is urgent that the venezuelan government put an end to political persecution, repression of the democratic opposition, violations of freedom of expression and assembly and censorship of the media. the voice of the opposition is fundamental to a free and democratic society. the commission and the council are therefore called upon to study and adopt all the measures necessary to safeguard european interests and the principle of legal certainty for european companies in venezuela.
‒ political persecution, arbitrary detention and violations of freedom of expression have been recurrent in venezuela. the venezuelan rulers' justifications are often without any foundation. a genuine dialogue with all political forces is absolutely necessary to promote democratic values, justice and full respect for human rights. as the elections approach, it will be more urgent for the eu to call for free and fair elections in a process that is inclusive of all democratic actors within the limits of the constitutional order.
‒ some sectors in venezuela have been waging an economic war in recent months through price increases, smuggling of goods and storage activities. the government of the bolivarian republic of venezuela denounced operation jericho, the latest coup attempt against the democratically elected government planned by the far-right opposition for february 12, 2014, with the funding and support of the us government, as well as with the support of several high-ranking venezuelan army officers. according to information provided by the venezuelan government, the coup attempt was based on a four-stage plan to depose president maduro, starting with economic warfare and ending with a violent military insurgency aimed at bombing strategic targets with tucano warplanes, including some of the main government facilities such as the presidential palace, the ministry of defence and the telesur television channel; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. it is the duty of this house to support a legitimately elected government through free elections, in which observers from this house were present. to do otherwise is to deny all the values proclaimed by this europe.
in writing. - this resolution presents a false picture of the political and social situation in venezuela, distorting facts, omitting events, in a hateful register that seeks to justify the systematic interference and aggression that the us and eu have imposed on the venezuelan people. the systematic attempts to destabilise society and overthrow governments elected in successive elections, in a profound disregard for the will of the people and democracy, are hypocritically ignored, particularly through operations orchestrated and financed by the united states, such as operation jericho or the 'la salida' plan, in which the extreme right is taking a leading role, along with the millions of dollars to finance political parties and anti-government organizations. the reality around events such as the detention of antónio ledezma (preventive arrest not for being a mayor but for inciting and participating in planning coups d'état against the democratic constitutional regime) is adulterated, while the violent street clashes permanently promoted by reactionary forces since 2014, which resulted in the death of dozens of people and hundreds of injured, are forgotten. the substantial social development that is taking place in that country - increased social investment, significant reduction in extreme poverty and malnutrition - is being suppressed at a pace that few, if any, of the countries that have signed this resolution will be able to keep up with. we voted against it.
mr president, i would like to support the proposal which has just been put forward by alain lamassoure and i shall not speak today about greece. i prefer to address the energy question in the hope that the european spirit and common sense will prevail in solving the greek problem. energy is a central issue for the european union and it is good that you have addressed it. according to european commission figures, 53% of this energy is imported, which equals an annual expenditure of 400 billion euros. the price of energy in the european union is also 40% higher than in the united states. portugal, like many other countries in the south, believed in the sincerity of the alternative agenda, the european agenda that puts solar, wind and tidal energy at the centre of its options and invested heavily to be able to gain competitive advantages in this area. however, when these countries want to export, they are faced not with a physical mountain, because that mountain is outpaced by technology, but with the mountain of the lack of political will of other countries and, let us be clear, the weight of some powerful lobbies such as the nuclear lobby. on 4 march portugal, spain and france signed an agreement, which was mentioned here today by mr juncker, under their auspices, for the interconnection of at least 10% of their electricity grids and the creation of the corresponding physical grids. the objective of interconnection between portugal and spain is even higher: 11% in 2016 and 15% in 2020. the latest european council recognised this agreement and said it was a welcome step towards achieving the european union's 2020 target. the problem is that this 10% target has been repeatedly reaffirmed by european leaders in recent years, with great publicity and no practical consequences. that is why i hope that the european union and the council of ministers will now be as demanding in the implementation of this agreement as they have been with others that are far less fair and far less important, and that the new instruments to support investment will be considered as a priority so that, in the end, the promises will give rise to concrete action. europeans need this. (the speaker accepts the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. the fundamental problem is obviously one which has already been fairly well solved in my country, and at the moment the question that is still outstanding is whether the investments which have been made can actually bring about a change in the european energy mix or whether they have to be confined to the country where they are produced, where there is in fact overcapacity and difficulty in storing them. so that's the question at this point: it is, in fact, to take advantage of the competitive advantages we have.
he asks under the blue card procedure. i also agree with the importance of the energy union and, as i said, interconnections will go a long way towards having better quality, safer energy and markets can work, but in order to do that they have to work as a system and a system is always limited by the weakest link. do you not think that this decision on the energy union lacks concrete actions which will have to be implemented if some country does not cooperate with this strategy? (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
i would like to refer to the discussions and decisions taken in this council in the field of foreign policy and neighbourhood policy. i would like to begin by mentioning the importance of the decisions that have been taken on the ukrainian question, the contribution that the european union wants to continue to make to the building of a genuine democratic state in ukraine and, on the other hand, the decisions that have been taken on the maintenance of sanctions against russia, without losing sight of the need to maintain an active dialogue with russia, since we must always keep in mind the need for a strategic partnership with our neighbour. i would also like to stress the decisions taken on libya and the call for the rapid establishment of a government of national unity in that country, as well as all the considerations that have been made in relation to the near and middle east, particularly in the fight against terrorism, and in this context i would like to stress the importance of strengthening european union cooperation with tunisia. tunisia today is a place on the border between civilization and barbarism. it is not the site of a clash of civilizations, of a supposed western civilization against a supposed muslim civilization. that's not what this is about. it is a clash between the values of a civilization which is universally expressed and the barbarism which, in the name of islam, has been imposed on that region. it was in tunisia that the arab spring began, and tunisia has been the great example, the only one, unfortunately, to date, of a successful process of democratization in an arab society. the events of the past week in tunisia, which have already been duly condemned and deplored here, should make us realize that we must strengthen cooperation with tunisia. the current tunisian president said today in an interview with a french newspaper that despite all the rhetorical statements, many countries have not yet provided tunisia with the support they had pledged and that the european union has special responsibilities and must turn to this direction. finally, i would like to make a further reference to what i consider very important: the decisions that have been taken on migration policy, creating the conditions to ensure the best possible reception of those seeking european lands.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i agree entirely with that concern. it is clear that this could contribute to the realisation and affirmation of the european project. europe is also moving forward in the european process, by materializing these ambitions and expectations of the common citizen, and it is clear that the maintenance of roaming charges is detrimental to the advancement of the european spirit in a very concrete way, and so what i can say to you, of course, is that i share your concerns fully and i also appeal to european governments to make progress as quickly as possible towards securing what you have advocated.
mr president, the results of the liberalization of the energy sector are in sight. the miraculous promises are confronted by the harsh reality. the natural monopolies of energy production and distribution were first broken up and then privatized. now, with the so-called energy union and the internal energy market, the conditions are being created for the further development of monopoly concentration on a european scale. this is the hard and pure objective, however much they try to envelop and adorn it with a rhetoric that is nothing more than that, the rhetoric of environmental efficiency and sustainability. however, while the new private monopolies are boasting fabulous profits, in portugal edp last year again generated over a billion euros in profits. families, businesses are choking on an energy bill that's never been higher. but the same policies will not produce different results. both the dynamisation of the economy and the sustainability of the energy model they require are to be achieved by restoring democratic public control over this strategic sector.
in its conclusions, the european council held an exchange of views on the economic situation in europe and the implementation of the fundamental structural reforms undertaken by the member states. the european council reiterates the three main pillars of the annual growth survey (investment, structural reforms and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation) and calls on the member states to reflect these priorities in their forthcoming national reform programmes and stability or convergence programmes. this shows that governments are still blind to the social and political reality of europe, dominated by unemployment, widespread poverty and the absence of prospects for growth. we need a europe which is geared to the people, not a europe which is tied to the interests of large multinational companies and the financial sector.
commissioner, in my country, portugal, as in many other countries, a small company that has managed to survive the crisis, besides having difficulty obtaining credit, has to pay 23% tax on its profits. at the same time, several large multinational companies, such as amazon, starbucks or ikea, are allegedly able to pay taxes of just over 1% by playing on the tax differences between eu states. second example, if my country cannot raise enough tax revenues to cover essential expenditure on education, health or support for the elderly, it risks paying a fine of up to 0.5% of gdp for not complying with economic governance rules. however, 19 of the 20 largest portuguese companies, which could most contribute with their tax contributions to balance these public accounts, chose to move their headquarters to the netherlands or luxembourg in order to benefit from the tax advantages offered to them. this practice of tax dumping between countries sharing the same market and the same currency becomes unbearable to citizens. the recent proposal of the european commission makes it compulsory to exchange information between the countries of the european union on tax optimisation practices. it is a step in the right direction which i acknowledge and thank commissioner moscovici for, but it is still insufficient. there are a number of measures that need to be taken to combat tax havens, to harmonize the tax base for companies, to report from one country to another. and the effort required of citizens also requires that we be determined to take these matters forward. the european parliament is fully committed to contributing to this new tax treatment and we sincerely hope, in addition to the support of civil society, in addition to the support of the commission, that we will have the same spirit of convergence from the council. that is what the citizens are demanding and that is the answer we have to give today.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the least we can say about tax policy today is that it is inefficient and unfair. what we have seen in recent years, particularly in the crisis years, and this becomes more shocking associated with austerity, was in the name of competitiveness a huge fall in the rate of capital, both in profits and in revenues. in the name of so-called fiscal consolidation, we have seen an incredible increase in the taxation of both labour and consumption, which, combined with austerity and recession, has only had very devastating consequences for the periphery of the euro area. and the result is that in terms of the distribution of income and wealth, we're becoming more and more unequal. we've also seen aggressive tax practices, we've seen scandals associated with tax evasion and tax avoidance, as well as tax evasion, and we've seen that lux leaks is just the tip of the iceberg. the european commission's data show that european citizens lose one trillion euros a year as a result of tax evasion. as we have seen, every year there is also a permanent injustice. nineteen of the 20 largest companies in portugal have moved their headquarters to the netherlands or luxembourg to avoid paying so much tax. we are indeed witnessing tax dumping. the package on tax transparency which the commission is now proposing is nothing new. these are measures which have been in place since 1977 and which the commission has not put into practice. and calling the exchange of information between tax authorities transparent is at the very least an exaggeration. transparency was being public.
this debate is a hymn to hypocrisy. governments like president juncker have for decades coexisted with tax evasion, even encouraged it, and are now suddenly very concerned about tax justice. this report is nothing more than a list of pious intentions that binds nothing and no one. it points to scandals, but uses innocuous and inconsequential wording that does not point to the real problem. and the problem goes back to the 1980s, to the neoliberal revolution, to the privatization of key sectors of our economy, creating empires that rule our governments and our institutions. the reduction of the corporate tax base, the free movement of capital, tax havens, fraud and tax evasion are all the children of the same disease, which is the subordination of political power to economic power, that is, either we change this or everything stays the same.
the european single market is an imperfect market, limited by physical and legal barriers to the movement of goods and services, but also by practices such as tax avoidance and evasion and aggressive tax competition between member states. these practices undermine the confidence of european citizens in the single market. we must combat quickly phenomena such as lux leaks or the encouragement given by some countries to companies from other european countries to transfer tax obligations outside their territory of operation. the tax package presented by the european commission, focused on transparency, responds to a need but is clearly insufficient. the action plan on corporate taxation announced for the summer, together with the report being prepared in the european parliament, must give a clear signal of tax harmonization. transparency is not enough. active cooperation and a determined elimination of harmful tax practices in the eu context are needed.
the european union is encouraging ukraine to implement reform projects. such an expression might even be moving if we did not know what reforms are planned. it is this conditionality that many countries that have received the troika already know so well: privatisations, free movement of capital to expand the internal market, labour reforms more in line with the modern paradigm of the european union and the imf, the so-called cheap labour without rights. in fact, the european union's desire to 'help' ukraine was so great that it even supported and incited a coup by nationalist, fascist and neo-nazi forces, a situation which would naturally lead to economic and social calamity as a consequence of the war. and once again, a pretext for the european union to help the ukrainian people. with friends like these, who needs enemies?
in writing. i join all those who have expressed their condolences for the attacks in tunis on 18 march. in a region ravaged by war, political instability and suffering, tunisia is still the only success story of the arab spring. it is also for this reason that it is essential that every effort be made to ensure that this country continues on its path towards democracy. if every attack on human life must be condemned in the strongest terms, this tragedy must also be a strong call to action and a stronger fight against fundamentalism of any kind. the statements of the high representative, which i am sure echo in this house, are therefore to be commended. the european union must not only maintain but also strengthen its presence and support for tunisia in the fight against terrorism, in increasing security, in consolidating the democratic regime and in economic and social development.
he asks under the blue card procedure. how do you explain the imposition of this measure on small and medium-sized enterprises, in the first place, which do not have the capacity to finance? the fact is that i think this measure has been tailored precisely to the needs of the large german and, apparently, dutch companies. does the honourable member not think that this measure is designed to benefit german companies alone and to bankrupt their foreign counterparts? you don't think this is anything more than a protectionist measure?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the question of the minimum wage we are discussing here is part of a wider discussion on what the real obstacles to the development of a barrier-free road market are and clearly has serious consequences, especially for the peripheral countries, as is the case not only in portugal but also elsewhere, and we must not forget that these issues affect economic growth and, ultimately, also affect export growth. i think that legal clarity for carriers is essential, but also a simplification of the regulatory framework. there are two basic issues here. on the one hand, there is a lack of effective control of cabotage operations and, on the other, there are differences in the application of certain provisions, such as the ban on regular weekly rest periods on board vehicles, as in france and belgium. we therefore need to review the establishment requirements, avoiding the transfer of activities to other member states with the deliberate aim of avoiding taxation and labour taxation. the commissioner has spoken here of fair working conditions and i think she has done very well, because i think it is important to safeguard the social and employment situation of european workers in this respect, especially by respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether it is really prepared, and when, to initiate an effective reform of the road transport market in the union, so that all companies can compete on equal terms and so that their workers have access to fair conditions not only in countries such as portugal but also in other countries.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear that what we are discussing here is not just a social or economic issue, nor is it limited to the transport sector. it is first and foremost a question of european integration. it is a question of european integration because we are dealing with a measure which is contrary to european law. throughout the process of building the internal market, there has always been a concern to observe the principle of mutual recognition of national laws with a view to establishing fundamental freedoms. in this context, this measure can only represent a step backwards. it also infringes a recognised principle of freedom of movement, namely the application of a single labour law to workers in transit within the union, and more specifically a minimum wage law. our duty is to contribute to a european policy which is integrated in the promotion of the european internal market and not the other way around. the european union has never failed to look at the freedom of movement of people, which is the most fundamental foundation of the european project. i would conclude by saying that we will not oppose this measure if the german state undertakes to pay the wage differential which this measure will entail for small and mediumsized enterprises.
he asks under the blue card procedure. jokes aside, let's get to the point. mr president, you have spoken about the experience in your community with the roma, and i would like to know how these initiatives have been financed, and also whether it is now understood that the european commission should also finance other initiatives of this kind such as those you have just mentioned.
during the second world war, the roma community was the target of what can be called the 'forgotten holocaust'. roma were persecuted, captured, subjected to forced labour and murdered in germany, in the occupied territories and in countries that cooperated with the nazi regime. despite all the atrocities committed against the roma community, it was not until 1982 that the government of the federal republic of germany recognised the persecution and genocide of the roma. thirty years after the war, many of the victims did not live long enough to receive recognition and reparation for the crimes they were targeted for. sadly, there was not even possible justice for tens of thousands of human beings. the establishment of the day in remembrance of the genocide of the roma during the second world war is a long overdue gesture that is vital to restoring some justice and dignity to the roma community. i fully support the initiative and hope that this is the first of many steps in building a different narrative for rome and in recognising its integral role in european and world culture, past, present and future.
there are indications that the european union is importing €6 billion worth of products from agricultural land acquired from illegal deforestation of tropical forests, which are often the livelihood of local communities. the wild destruction of forests for the production of palm oil, soybeans, beef and cattle skin is a criminal act with serious environmental and social consequences. it can furthermore be inferred that these imports subject european farmers to unfair competition. the european institutions and their citizens must be alerted to these signs and, if confirmed, compensation should be paid to the injured parties and environmental services should be reimbursed to the indigenous communities. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the process of deforestation, which involves corruption and violence, jeopardises climate stability and leads to the loss of biodiversity, and these are issues with which the european union is formally committed in its strategy for sustainable development, mitigating global warming and combating the loss of biodiversity.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 5 046,000 for greece to support the 928 workers made redundant in 16 companies involved in radio and television programming.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. in the case of attica broadcasting, and considering that the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, the aid package i voted for consists of vocational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training and grants for self-employment, job search and mobility, with a view to improving the employability of all workers. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support. according to the data provided by the greek authorities, the greek economy is in deep recession for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013). according to elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008, greek gdp has decreased by 25,7 percentage points, public consumption by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 32,3 percentage points, while unemployment has increased by 20,6 percentage points. this support concerns 928 redundancies in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to obtain reimbursement of their costs from the eu when their applications are approved. the greek authorities submitted an application for redundancies in 16 companies operating in the radio and television programming activities in the attica region, corresponding to a financial contribution of more than eur 5 million. i voted in favour.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to greece, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of the egf/2014/018 gr/attica broadcasting following 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 60 (radio and television programming activities) in the nuts 2 region of attica (el 30) in greece.
in writing. regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. this report concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 046 000 from the egf for greece. it concerns 928 redundancies in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014. these redundancies were due to a reduction in household disposable income and an increase in unemployment, which resulted in a huge fall in purchasing power and the need to set priorities in terms of expenditure, significantly limiting the money devoted to daily information, as happened with attica broadcasting. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed consists of vocational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training and grants for self-employment, job search, training and mobility.
in writing. ‒ greece has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 60 (radio and television programme activities) in the region of attica during the period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as it is established, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are linked to the global economic and financial crisis, as household disposable income has decreased, resulting in a huge fall in purchasing power and the need to set priorities in terms of expenditure, significantly limiting the funds devoted to daily information and drastically reducing loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of greek banks, and, on the other hand, that the redundancies will have a very negative impact on the attica region, which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece compared to the other 12 regions. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for greece.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a financial assistance mechanism designed to provide additional support to workers affected by the relocations that have occurred in the globalised world in which we live. greece has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in order to cover the 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises in the audiovisual sector in the region of attica. it should be noted that this is the first application in this sector. since the dismissal of this number of workers will have a negative impact on this greek region, which has the highest unemployment rate of all the 12 regions, i consider this proposal to be important in that it provides a financial contribution to greece of €5 046 000, especially since most of these funds will be channelled to supporting the creation of businesses and investing in vocational training.
‒ due to the global financial and economic crisis which has deeply affected the greek economy, greece requested assistance from the egf following the redundancies in the media sector, in this case 928 workers in 16 companies in the area of programming and broadcasting. in this context, media companies experienced a decline in their revenues, as spending on advertising, one of their basic sources of revenue, fell dramatically by about 57%. the redundancies covered by this egf application are concentrated in attica, a region with an unemployment rate of 28% and where there are few job vacancies compared to the high number of jobseekers. as a consequence, more than 70% of the unemployed have been out of the labour market for more than 12 months. the measures co-financed by the egf helped workers to find new jobs by providing them with training, specific advice on entrepreneurship and assistance in setting up businesses. all redundant workers are eligible to participate in the measures. while we underline this support, we reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to halt the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
in writing. greece has applied for egf assistance following the redundancies of workers in the media sector, in this case 928 workers in 16 enterprises in the field of programming and broadcasting. these job losses were the result of the global financial and economic crisis which deeply affected the greek economy. during the years 2009-2012, companies operating in the media sectors closed down their activities or reduced their staff. in this context, media companies have experienced a decline in their revenues as spending on advertising, one of their basic sources of revenue, has fallen sharply. all the redundancies covered by this egf application are concentrated in attica, a region with an unemployment rate of 28% and where there are few job vacancies compared to the high number of jobseekers. as a consequence, more than 70% of the unemployed have been out of the labour market for more than 12 months. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid to support those who are the main victims of the consequences of the liberalization of world trade, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of action to halt the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 3 746 700 for greece to support the 705 workers made redundant in 46 companies operating in the publishing sector.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. in the case of attica publishing activities, and considering that the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, the aid package i voted for consists of vocational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training and grants for self-employment, job search and mobility, with a view to improving the employability of all workers. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support. according to the data provided by the greek authorities, the greek economy is in deep recession for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013). according to elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008, greek gdp has decreased by 25,7 percentage points, public consumption by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 32,3 percentage points, while unemployment has increased by 20,6 percentage points. this support concerns 705 redundancies in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to obtain reimbursement of their costs from the eu when their applications are approved. the greek authorities submitted an application concerning redundancies in 46 publishing companies in the attica region, which provides for a financial contribution of eur 3 746 700. i voted in favour.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to greece, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of the application egf/2014/015 gr/attica publishing activities, following 705 redundancies in 46 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 58 (publishing activities) in the region of attica, nuts 2 level (el 30) in greece.
in writing. regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the redundancies in greece were due to a reduction in household disposable income and an increase in unemployment, which resulted in a huge fall in purchasing power and the need to set priorities in terms of expenditure, significantly limiting the money devoted to daily information, as happened with attica publishing activities. it should be underlined that companies in this sector (newspapers, magazines, etc.) recorded a 60% decrease in sales in the period 2009-2013. in this regard, i am in favour of mobilising a total amount of eur 3 746 700 from the egf for greece, which relates to 705 redundancies in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014.
in writing. ‒ greece has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 705 redundancies in 46 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 58 (publishing activities) in the region of attica during the period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as it is established, on the one hand, that the redundancies in the publishing sector in the attica region are linked to the global economic and financial crisis which reduced household disposable income, resulting in a huge fall in purchasing power and the need to set priorities in terms of expenditure, with the daily abandonment of magazines and newspapers, as well as a drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of greek banks, and, on the other hand, that the redundancies will have a very negative impact on the attica region, which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece compared to the other 12 regions. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for greece.
in writing. ‒ similar to the previous proposal, greece submitted another application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to mitigate the effects of the dismissal of 705 workers in 46 companies operating in the audiovisual sector, in the publishing component, also in the attica region. since the criteria for allocating this fund are met and since this is a situation similar to the previous application submitted by greece for the audiovisual sector, it also deserves my vote in favour.
‒ the activity of media companies in greece has been on a steady downward trend in recent years: the turnover of media companies in publishing has decreased by more than 40% over the last three years (2010-2013), resulting in redundancies. in view of this crisis, greece requested assistance from the egf to cover the redundancies of 705 workers in 46 publishing companies. this region, which accounts for almost half of greece's gdp, has already been hit hard by the negative consequences of the crisis. all redundancies covered by egf applications are concentrated in attica, a region with an unemployment rate of 28% and where there are few job vacancies, with more than 70% of the unemployed being out of the labour market for more than 12 months. the measures co-financed by the egf are aimed at helping workers find new jobs by providing them with active career guidance, vocational training and specific advice on entrepreneurship. in reality, this fund only provides limited immediate support to workers and does nothing to address the consequences of the continuing liberalization of world trade and the neoliberal policies continually pursued by the eu.
‒ greece has requested assistance from the egf following the redundancies of 705 workers in 46 publishing companies. turnover in media companies has been on a steady downward trend in recent years: the turnover ratio of media companies in the publishing sector decreased by more than 40% over the last three years (2010-2013), resulting in redundancies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees of the media companies in the union. these redundancies have put a strain on a region that has already been hit hard by the negative consequences of the crisis. all redundancies covered by egf applications are concentrated in attica, a region with an unemployment rate of 28% and where there are few job vacancies, with more than 70% of the unemployed being out of the labour market for more than 12 months. the crisis in attica affects the entire greek economy, as the region contributes 43% of greek gdp. in reality, this fund only represents limited immediate support for workers, a palliative, doing nothing to address the consequences of the continuing liberalization of world trade and the neoliberal policies continually pursued by the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of the request for the member's immunity to be waived, in accordance with his wishes and to allow the judicial proceedings before the coimbra regional court to continue.
‒ the portuguese authorities sent a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of marinho e pinto, accused of having criticised, as a member of the portuguese bar association, a previous decision of the disciplinary body of the association itself which had acquitted a former member of its leadership. the disciplinary proceedings had been initiated following a complaint by a judge against a former oap staff member, who was eventually acquitted.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. a judge at the coimbra regional court has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, antónio marinho e pinto, in the context of a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. antónio marinho e pinto is accused of the crime of defamation of former employees of the portuguese bar association. since the charges are clearly not related to the duties of antónio marinho e pinto as a member of the european parliament and derive from his previous position as a member of the portuguese bar association, i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report for the waiver of immunity concerns charges which are not directly related to the activity of a member of the european parliament, since they concern a post previously held by the person concerned. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report which seeks to lift immunity.
‒ judge of the coimbra regional court, dr. rodrigo pereira da costa, requested the lifting of the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto on 8 october 2014, in connection with a possible legal action relating to an alleged crime, being accused of the crime of defamation of former officials of the portuguese bar association. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, the charges result from his previous position as a member of the portuguese bar association, and therefore do not concern opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. in the light of that report, i voted in favour of this decision lifting the immunity of mr antónio marinho and mr pinto.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr antónio marinho e pinto, mep, requested by the judge of the regional court of coimbra on 8 october 2014, and concerns a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence committed by the member of the european parliament, prior to his current duties, in which he is accused of a crime of defamation of former officials of the portuguese bar association. given that the accusation is not related to the exercise of the current european mandate, but is the result of his previous position as a member of the european parliament, and given that he has already publicly stated that he does not intend to use the prerogative conferred by article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i voted in favour of this report on the lifting of his parliamentary immunity.
‒ antónio marinho e pinto is charged with the crime of defamation of former officials of the portuguese bar association. the charges are clearly not related to the duties of antónio marinho e pinto as a member of the european parliament. they are the result of his previous position as a member of the portuguese bar association. since the alleged actions do not concern opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of the functions of member of the european parliament and there is no suspicion of any attempt by antónio marinho and pinto to obstruct parliamentary work, we support the waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho and pinto.
‒ the lawyer of a private complainant requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, ivan jakovčić, for the alleged crime of defamation. ivan jakovčić was a member of the european parliament at the time of the interview. however, the alleged statements relate to a matter dating back to a time when he was not yet in that position and have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by ivan jakovčić, nor do they constitute an opinion or a vote in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. a lawyer for a private complainant requested the lifting of ivan jakovčić's parliamentary immunity. the request is related to an alleged crime of defamation. this request concerns the criminal proceedings brought against ivan jakovčić in relation to defamatory statements allegedly made by him in an interview with croatian radio television hrt. the statements in question have no direct connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and do not constitute an opinion or a vote in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7. i therefore voted in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as the committee responsible has assessed the whole procedure in accordance with the rules of procedure.
‒ in the context of a criminal case pending before the municipal court of pazin (croatia), the lawyer of the injured party, acting as the applicant, transmitted to the european parliament on 5 september 2014 a request for the waiver of the immunity of ivan jakovčić in connection with a legal action in which he is accused of making defamatory statements in an interview with croatian radio television hrt on 22 july 2014. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, ivan jakovčić was a member of the european parliament at the time of the interview, but the alleged statements relate to a matter dating back to a time when he was not yet a member of the european parliament. the statements in question are therefore not directly and visibly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and do not constitute an opinion or a vote in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. in the light of that report, i voted in favour of this decision lifting the immunity of ivan jakovčić.
‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the croatian mep ivan jakovčić, made by the lawyer of georg list, an international businessman, who has lodged a criminal complaint against the current member of the european parliament for defamation in relation to offensive statements made in an interview with croatian radio and television. after the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights gave a favourable opinion on the admissibility of a request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity by a natural person and its applicability to the present case, i consider that the conditions for the waiver of parliamentary immunity are met and therefore i have voted in favour.
‒ the case concerns a complaint against ivan jakovčić by businessman georg list, an international businessman who has been trying to build a polo field in the area of motovun (croatia) since 2002. despite large investments, the project has not yet started due to the political and administrative obstacles that georg list has allegedly faced and which led him to publicly blame the local authorities, including making allegations about a potential bribery case. georg list decided, following an interview, to lodge a complaint against ivan jakovčić for the allegedly defamatory nature of the statement in question. ivan jakovčić was a member of the european parliament at the time of the interview. however, the alleged statements relate to a matter which dates back to a time when he was not yet in that position. we think that this case needs a better assessment by the legal services of parliament.
in writing. ‒ mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik) is also requested. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's commitments under the paris agreement. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 2 490 758 for ireland to support the 424 workers made redundant at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its supplier companies in ireland.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. in the case of lufthansa technik, redundancies in the 'repair, maintenance and installation of machinery and equipment' sector in the southern and eastern regions of ireland are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, which has led to the worldwide relocation of aircraft production. considering that the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, the aid package i voted for consists of vocational guidance and planning measures, egf training grants, training and upper secondary education programmes, higher education programmes, support for enterprises and self-employment, as well as income support, including the egf scheme of contributions to training costs. this support should be complementary to the liability of the company under national law and not superimposed on other types of union financial support. this support concerns 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two of its supplier companies in ireland.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the irish authorities submitted an application for redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two supplier companies in ireland for a financial contribution of eur 2 490 758. i voted in favour.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to ireland, which submitted an application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik for a financial contribution from the egf following 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its supplier companies in ireland.
in writing. ‒ the regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. this is the tenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 490 758 from the egf for ireland. the irish authorities argue that the closure of ltai is the result of a profound change in trade in goods and services in the eu due to a technological shift towards the production of next generation aircraft and their components. the application thus concerns the dismissal of 149 persons in the reference period from 1 march 2014 to 30 june 2014. i therefore support this report which aims to mobilise a significant financial allocation to support people who have lost their jobs by providing them with new vocational guidance training, so that they have new tools and better skills to return to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ ireland has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 424 redundancies in lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its suppliers during the period from 1 march 2014 to 30 june 2014. according to the commission, the exceptional circumstances presented by the irish authorities justify a derogation from the intervention criteria of the egf regulation, on the one hand, as the redundancies in the 'repair, maintenance and installation of machinery and equipment' sector in the southern and eastern regions of ireland are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as the closure of ltai is the result of a profound change in trade in goods and services in the union, which has changed the global location of aircraft production, and on the other hand, as these redundancies are expected to have a major negative impact on the already heavily disadvantaged southern and eastern regions of ireland, as demonstrated by certain socioeconomic indicators such as the low level of education and vocational training. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for ireland.
‒ the repair, maintenance and installation of machinery and equipment, as well as aircraft production in europe, has been suffering the effects of globalisation with the relocation of these services to china and south east asia. in the present case, the parent company lufthansa technik decided to base its airbus a330/340 mro operations in a subsidiary company located in the philippines. this has resulted in the dismissal of 250 workers in a very sensitive sector which has had a very negative impact on the southern and eastern regions of ireland where education and lack of vocational qualifications are a fact of life. in the light of the foregoing, i am therefore in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, amounting to € 2 490 758, in favour of ireland, as it meets the exceptional circumstances provided for in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation.
‒ lufthansa technik was split from the parent group in 1994. in 1999, lufthansa technik became fully owned by aer lingus, which in 1980 set up 'airmotive ireland', aircraft maintenance and general repair and overhaul in dublin. a profound change in trade in goods and services in the union, mainly due to globalisation and relocations, has had an impact on the business models underlying lufthansa technik, leading to the closure of lufthansa technik ireland. this is the tenth transfer proposal for mobilising the egf transmitted to the budgetary authority to date in 2015. this time it is ireland's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 149 of the 424 workers made redundant by lufthansa technik in their reintegration into the labour market. once again, it is the regions with the highest unemployment rates that are hit hardest by the consequences of deregulation and liberalization of world trade and the eu's neoliberal policies.
‒ a profound change in trade in goods and services in the european union, resulting from a technological shift in the production of new generation aircraft and their components, coupled with the global offshoring of aircraft production, the fact that western european and us carriers have a habit of sending their large aircraft to china for heavy maintenance, and the offshoring of parent company lufthansa technik, which decided to base its airbus a330/340 mro operations in the subsidiary lufthansa technik philipines in the philippines, have impacted fundamental aspects of the market and the underlying business model of lufthansa technik ireland, leading to the closure of lufthansa technik ireland. this is the tenth transfer proposal for mobilising the egf transmitted to the budgetary authority so far in 2015. this time it is ireland's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 149 workers out of a total of 424 workers made redundant by lufthansa technik. in addition to the many redundancies in companies in this sector over the past few years, it is even more difficult for these workers, with very specific skills in this sector, to find a new job.
‒ the vilnius regional court delivered a judgment, which has not yet been transposed into law, against the member of the european parliament viktor uspaskich, which is currently pending before the lithuanian court of appeal. the charges against viktor uspaskich do not relate to opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. this request is made by the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of justice of greece, who has requested the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a possible conviction for an alleged infringement. a vilnius regional court has handed down a judgment, which has not yet been transposed into law, against mep viktor uspaskich. the charges against viktor uspaskich do not relate to opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament and therefore article 8 of the protocol does not apply. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
‒ the request for waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich was transmitted in july 2014 by the lithuanian authorities. since the charges against the member are not related to his duties as a member of the european parliament, i am in favour of the adoption of this report.
‒ in the context of a criminal action pending before the court of appeal of the republic of lithuania, the lithuanian judicial authorities submitted to the european parliament on 21 july 2014 a request for the waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich for accounting fraud. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, the evidence presented by the member for the existence of 'fumus persecutionis' was not convincing and, moreover, the wrongdoing of which viktor uspaskich is accused has nothing to do with opinions or votes expressed, or with any other activity, as a member of the european parliament. in the light of that report, i voted in favour of this decision lifting the immunity of viktor uspaskic.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and may only be called into question as a last resort. in the present case, the prosecutor general of lithuania was instructed by the lithuanian liaison court to request the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of the mep viktor uspaskich with a view to the execution of the sentence of 4 years of effective imprisonment, handed down by the vilnius regional court on 12 july 2013 for various offences under the lithuanian criminal code, mainly related to party financing. since the decision was appealed, the proceedings were therefore suspended and mr uspaskich was re-elected as a member of the european parliament, it was necessary to examine a new request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. since this request concerns alleged illegal acts relating to the tax offences relating to the financing of the party he chaired and since there is no good reason to believe that we are facing a criminal proceeding motivated by political reasons, i am of the opinion that his parliamentary immunity should be waived.
in writing. ‒ this case, a jumble, has been dragging on in this parliament for a long time, involving several cases that are interlinked, making the situation complex. again, it was not possible to establish any sufficient link between the new elements actually submitted and the case brought against viktor uspaskich for falsification of accounts. we consider that no convincing evidence of the existence of 'fumus persecutionis' has been presented and that the wrongdoing of which viktor uspaskich is accused has nothing to do with his activities as a member of the european parliament. we believe that it is up to the committee on legal affairs to examine this case more closely in order to give a better reason for this parliament's decision.
‒ a former member of the european parliament, gabriele albertini, has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of a criminal action pending before an italian court for the allegedly defamatory nature of the views expressed by gabriele albertini in a written question submitted to the italian minister of justice, with a view to determining whether the conduct of alfredo robledo, a public prosecutor who opened an investigation into facts involving the municipality of milan and related to gabriele albertini's duties as mayor of that city in 2005, constituted a breach of professional ethics, and therefore liable to disciplinary proceedings. parliament took the view that the facts of the case, and in accordance with gabriele albertini's oral explanation to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of gabriele albertini's duties as a member of the european parliament and therefore decided not to uphold gabriele albertini's immunity.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. this request is made by the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of justice of greece, who has requested the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a possible conviction for an alleged infringement. a former member of the european parliament, mr gabriele albertini, applied for the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of a criminal action pending before an italian court and also requested a review of his application for the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of a civil action pending before the same court. it has been proven twice that the actions taken by gabriele albertini were not directly related to his activity as a member of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of your parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report, based on decisions already taken in the past, in particular in may 2013 and february 2014, does not advocate the maintenance of the immunities and privileges of a former member of parliament, as it considers that the person concerned was not acting in the exercise of his/her duties as a member. i am in favour of the approval of the same.
in writing. ‒ a former member of the european parliament, gabriele albertini, applied for the defence of his parliamentary immunity on 16 september 2014 in the criminal action pending before the court of brescia (italy) and, in addition, requested a re-examination of the application for the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the civil action pending before the same court. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, the supporting documents submitted by gabriele albertini did not make clear the relationship between his statements and his duties as a member of the european parliament, and in making the statements in question he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. in the light of that report, i voted in favour of this decision, which maintains the decisions of the european parliament of 21 may 2013 and 24 february 2014 not to uphold the immunities and privileges of gabriele albertini and not to act on his request for review of the civil action brought against him.
‒ as regards the request for defence of privileges and immunities submitted by mr gabriele albertini, which has been reviewed, i agree with the consistent line of argument of the committee on legal affairs to reject this claim. as has been shown, the facts are not subject to any of the legal provisions of the protocol and the rules of procedure on this matter and there is no direct and obvious causal link between the statements he made and his performance as a member of the european parliament. as such, i find it untenable to accept his claim to the privileges and immunities of the defendant.
‒ the defence is directed against the allegedly defamatory nature of the views expressed by gabriele albertini in a written question submitted to the italian minister of justice on 22 october 2012. the request for review concerns a summons against gabriele albertini to the court of milan by alfredo robledo in connection with allegedly defamatory statements made by gabriele albertini in an initial interview published by the italian newspaper. there is no evidence in this case that gabriele albertini, in making the statements in question, was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. in that regard, the immunity and privileges of mr gabriele albertini in respect of the civil action brought against him cannot be defended.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting macrofinancial assistance to ukraine in the context of the serious economic crisis it is going through, which has its roots in longstanding structural problems and is aggravated by the armed conflict with the eastern regions and the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. an ambitious programme of macroeconomic adjustment and structural reforms supported by the imf financial assistance programme and two eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) operations is under way, and the economic recession and capital flight have been more pronounced than initially anticipated. the eur 1.8 billion in assistance will contribute to the eu's objectives of promoting stability and economic development in ukraine and the eastern region of the european neighbourhood policy. through conditionality, the programme will also help to reinforce the economic reform commitments made by the ukrainian government, and is a sign that the eu is ready to support countries undertaking reforms in times of economic and political difficulties.
‒ the eu proposes to provide an additional €1.8 billion in macro-financial assistance to ukraine in the form of medium-term loans to help the country cover part of its external financing needs in 2015 and early 2016, in the context of the imf programme. ukraine's reform efforts have been hampered by the continuing armed conflict in the east of the country, increased trade restrictions imposed by russia and the escalation of the natural gas dispute between the two countries. the economic recession and capital flight have been more pronounced than initially anticipated, resulting in a sharp depreciation of the currency and a decline in international reserves. as ukraine has lost access to international markets it needs this assistance.
‒ ukraine is experiencing a serious economic crisis, which has been aggravated by the military conflicts raging in its eastern territory. following the inauguration of a new government in february 2014, its ambitious programme of macroeconomic adjustment and structural reforms was supported by the imf financial assistance programme and two eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) operations. however, ukraine's reform efforts have been hampered by the continuing armed conflict in the east. the economic recession and capital flight have therefore been more pronounced than initially anticipated, resulting in a sharp depreciation of the currency and a decline in international reserves. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. as ukraine has lost access to international debt markets, this shortfall can only be filled through supplementary official financial assistance. i therefore welcome this support to help ukraine get through this difficult economic period.
‒ the european union's neighbourhood policy aims to create an area of security, stability and prosperity along its external borders, both maritime and land. ukraine is experiencing an emergency situation which requires support from the international community. the report approves microfinance assistance worth eur 1.8 billion to support economic stabilisation and the reforms needed for the country's development, in the form of loans. i am voting in favour of this support, stressing that the international community must react with one voice to the russian invasion of eastern ukraine.
‒ the ukrainian economy is in a serious and acute crisis, rooted in long-standing structural problems and aggravated by the armed conflict with the eastern regions and russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine. in view of this situation, the commission proposed on 8 january 2015 additional macro-financial assistance (mfa). the amf is an exceptional eu crisis response mechanism available to eu partner countries facing severe balance of payments problems, such as ukraine. the additional mfa can make an important contribution to a new international support package for ukraine, either directly through the proposed amount of eur 1,8 billion or indirectly through the mobilisation of contributions from other partners. i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to grant macrofinancial assistance to ukraine and reaffirms the eu's longstanding commitment to ukraine's reform process.
‒ ukraine has been an important partner of the european union, notably through trade relations established under the european neighbourhood policy. however, in the face of continued violations of its territorial integrity, ukraine has been facing difficult periods of economic and financial instability, balance of payments, lack of liquidity, capital flight, among others, leading to an increased need for external financing. in this context and given the reiterated request by ukraine on 15 december 2014 for macro-financial assistance, i agree with this decision, being certain that this assistance should be exceptional and conditional on ukraine undertaking the reforms necessary for the political stability of its institutions, the strengthening of its administrative capacity, the prevention of fraud and corruption and the creation of the conditions for sustainable growth and development, generating employment and capable of consolidating ukraine's public accounts.
‒ the ukrainian economy is going through a serious and acute crisis, triggered by the armed conflict provoked by the european union linked to nato and the united states. following the coup government's takeover in february 2014, the eu imposed an imf financial assistance programme and two eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) operations, conditional on the usual structural reforms. this disastrous adventure has already cost the people of ukraine and the european union too much, who are the ones paying for the mismanagement of those who run this eu. the eu has severed commercial, historical and cultural ties between russia and ukraine. as a result, it had to open its borders to absorb ukrainian exports to russia. the eu has also had to pay gazprom's gas bills and has had to pay billions of euros when we are told that there are no funds to finance a simple public investment programme that is so badly needed to revive the economy. it's a scandal we will not tire of denouncing and justice has yet to be done.
‒ the european commission has been strongly supporting ukraine in the framework of macrofinancial assistance (mfa). after disbursing a total of eur 1620 million in 2014-2015, it is now preparing to grant a further eur 1,8 billion loan. in return for this financial 'aid', the eu encourages ukraine to pursue reform projects. this could be very moving if we did not know what reforms are planned. it is this conditionality that we all know so well: privatization, free movement of capital to expand the eu's internal market, labour reforms more in line with the modern eu-imf paradigm of "cheap labour without rights". in fact, the eu's desire to 'help' ukraine was so great that it even supported and incited a coup by fascist and neo-nazi forces, which would naturally lead to economic and social calamity as a consequence of the war. again, the same hypocrisy.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the annual report on taxation, which identifies areas of action for a fairer, more transparent and more effective tax policy. the report stresses the need to adopt fiscal policy measures that eliminate legislative discrepancies and administrative barriers between the different member states, boosting the single market. on the other hand, i agree that it is important to maintain the fiscal sustainability of states by ensuring their tax revenues by taking immediate and coordinated action, both in the eu and in the international context, to combat tax evasion and tax fraud, as well as to fight aggressive tax planning and tax havens. in this context, it is important to condemn and prevent the conclusion of secret agreements on tax exemptions for large companies and to stress the importance of measures for the automatic exchange of information and the adoption of general principles requiring the payment of taxes in the countries where services are consumed.
‒ €1 trillion of potential tax revenues are lost every year in the eu due to tax fraud and tax evasion, posing a major risk to the efficiency and fairness of eu tax systems, as it increases the tax burden on all bona fide businesses and citizens. this loss results in less public money being available for investment, which consequently translates into less capacity to encourage further private investment. companies take advantage of the complexity of tax rules and the lack of cooperation between member states to off-load profits and minimise their taxes. enhanced transparency and cooperation are therefore vital in the fight against aggressive tax planning and abusive tax practices. the tax transparency package which i voted for aims, among other things, to ensure that member states have the information they need to protect their taxable items and to effectively identify companies that try to avoid paying their fair share of tax.
‒ taking due account of the development of a tax system adapted to the specific characteristics of the economies of all member states, as provided for in the treaties, the report proposes a holistic approach to tax policy, which may prove to be an important instrument for fostering growth and deepening emu. good tax control is essential to reduce tax evasion and thus channel more revenue to member states. good taxation is therefore essential to strengthening the single market, to achieving economic growth and reducing unemployment. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ an estimated €1 trillion of potential tax revenues is lost every year in the eu due to tax fraud and evasion, so the existence of an automatic exchange of information between member states and the definitive abolition of bank secrecy in the eu as of june 2015 is key to increasing transparency in banking operations. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there are potential benefits of the internal market through tax policy and i am in favour of putting forward concrete proposals on how to tackle the obstacles which hinder the crossborder activity of individuals and businesses in the single market. finally, i would stress that the stabilisation of a fiscal policy is of strategic importance in promoting economic growth in the medium and long term, since transparent and stable taxation can help to increase investor interest.
‒ this resolution addresses the issues of taxation in the eu in 2014 and proposes a holistic approach to tax policy, identifying three main priority areas which are complementary to each other. first, it calls for specific tax policy measures to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and tax authorities by eliminating artificial barriers and discrepancies between national laws. it identifies initiatives that can ensure legal certainty, enhance cross-border trade, and promote the full potential of the single market, thereby boosting growth and jobs. secondly, it considers that fiscal policy is an important part of fiscal sustainability, as it ensures revenue. it therefore reiterates the need for immediate, coordinated and comprehensive action at eu level to combat tax evasion, tax fraud and tax avoidance, as well as aggressive tax planning and tax havens. thirdly, fiscal coordination through well-defined structural reforms in the context of the european semester is identified as the main instrument for developing fiscal policies that stimulate growth, employment and investment in the medium and long term. i voted in favour.
‒ this is the third (own-initiative) report that the european parliament has decided to draw up on the main fiscal aspects of the year 2014. it is an analysis of the current inefficiency and inequality of the tax systems of the european union, highlighting the four main problems we are facing at this level: tax evasion, tax fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. by tackling these problems and using a more efficient and effective fiscal policy, we will be ensuring the fiscal sustainability of our states and of the union itself. although we are in the field of application of the principle of subsidiarity, it is important to adopt a concerted and bold policy, which is capable of simplifying procedures, reducing administrative costs, increasing transparency, sharing information between states, preserving fair and transparent competition and promoting the conclusion of tax agreements with third countries. in order to ensure good tax governance for the completion of the single market and for economic growth in the eu, it is important to strengthen the european semester as a mechanism for coordinating member states' economic and tax policies. i voted in favour of this report, which contains a number of ideas and guidelines for a responsible, transparent and balanced tax policy.
in the report, the commission proposes to make a number of changes to the taxation system in the eu, including the introduction of a new system of taxation for the benefit of the taxpayer, the introduction of a new system of taxation for the benefit of the taxpayer, and the introduction of a new system of taxation for the benefit of the taxpayer. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of the free movement of goods, services and capital, and is designed to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of a new type of taxation. without this objective in hand, all intentions are mere words.
the committee on budgets mr president, i would like to greet the commissioner, i would like to greet all my colleagues and all my colleagues. we are faced with a highly technical proposal. the evidence is that it was unanimously adopted in the committees and, in particular, unanimously by the committee on budgets, but it is also a proposal on which we can make political considerations and draw conclusions for the future. the delay in the multiannual financial framework has led to the delay in the operational programmes and in particular the operational programmes of cohesion policy. it is no wonder that the european fund for strategic investments, where cohesion policy is based but also the european maritime and fisheries fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development, is the most affected and in this context cohesion policy is the one that has the greatest expression. it is important, it is urgent that the regional operational programmes, in particular the regional operational programmes of cohesion policy, where the erdf, the european social fund and the cohesion fund are, all of them enter at high speed, at cruise speed. i would remind you that there are 272 regions in the european union, but one in four of these regions has less than 75% of gdp per capita, with 100 being the average for the european union, i.e. one in four regions has the designation of least developed region. and these cohesion policy funds are essential to combating asymmetries but they are also important, and today they have a new way of acting and a new framework, so that there are even synergies with the funds that are in what is called the common strategic framework. they also contribute to employment, they also contribute to growth. they contribute, in particular, to the priority of smart growth. today, cohesion policy is also research. today, cohesion policy is also innovation in a number of member states, and hence the importance of not being able to lose resources which have added value for the whole of the european union. we're talking about a transfer that isn't even a payment. we are talking about a transfer which is commitment appropriations: €21.1 billion which has not been used and which will be used mainly in 2015, but also in 2016 and 2017. it is essential that these programmes, but also the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund, which are also housed here, are properly set in motion. this transfer, this modification, this revision of the multiannual financial framework will allow 300 programmes not to be affected by the delays i have already mentioned. it is also important to stress that the multiannual financial framework needs flexibility, it needs a revision that takes into account the need for growth, the need for employment, and it also needs flexibility for new programmes, for programmes such as the juncker plan, which may have to be looked at in the revision of the multiannual financial framework, in particular for possible lines that will be used to finance this juncker plan. what i am asking for is that this multiannual financial framework, this revision of the multiannual financial framework, should have the same vote as it did in the committees, that is, that there should be a unanimity which also existed in those committees. the european union needs it, the european citizens are grateful.
mr president, commissioner, this proposal is to transfer to 2015 funds which, due to the late adoption of the regulations, could not be used until the end of 2014. this is a positive proposal which should be adopted, especially since it is accompanied by a declaration of the european commission's willingness to cooperate actively with the national and regional authorities in implementing these funds in areas which are fundamental to sustainable development and to combating asymmetries. the solution found for this case, however, does not allow us to rest in regard to the "original sin" that seems to have tainted this multi-year picture. at a time of stagnation, madam commissioner, at a time of economic stagnation, when many countries benefiting from cohesion programmes are in great need of investment, it is unacceptable that a bureaucratic regulatory framework with no internal flexibility should mitigate the positive effects that could be expected from such investments. in portugal, 16 months after the entry into force of this framework, the first calls for tenders are only now being opened and not a single euro has yet reached the economy, the scientific and technological system or the training institutions. i hope that the amendment proposed today will be adopted, that it will allow the resources we have to be better used, not wasted on the inefficiencies of the machine.
we welcome this flexibility mechanism, which allows for the reallocation of funds not used in 2014 to future years. this was to be expected, given the long application procedures under the new community framework. at the level of the common agricultural policy, and in particular at the level of single payment applications, there are significant delays which should warrant the commission to take measures to make the deadlines more flexible. we cannot but take advantage of this debate to stress once again that this multiannual plan is in contradiction with the propaganda which calls for a europe of social cohesion, but which then does not give it the means to correct the asymmetries, all the more so at a time when the european union itself is forcing the national states to use expansionist policies. we also fail to understand why, in this context, the extraordinary revenue from own resources is not being used to try to reduce this deficit, which remains a stain on the credibility of the european union and which imposes on the member states what they are not able to do at home.
mr president, i have to say that i believe that this is a very important day for the european parliament, very important for armenia, very important for all those who are denouncing and combating criminal practices against peoples, against ethnic groups, against ethnic or national minorities all over the world. the genocide which was committed 100 years ago, in 1915/16/17, against the armenian people is a great stain on the history of the peoples of europe, on the history of the peoples of asia and must be remembered here. this is not a condemnation of turkey, and turkey itself must realise this. criticism of a practice of a government, which was the government of the ottoman empire at the time, does not mean condemning the turkish republic or the turkish people, it only means saying that these practices cannot be repeated and that turkey should be the first to make this distinction, acknowledging what happened 100 years ago and, of course, by deploring, showing that it is completely outside this set of practices. for a portuguese who is very much connected with armenia, portugal, mainly through the action of calouste gulbenkian, could not help but have a word for parliament here today.
president my fellow colleagues. this year and this month marks the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, also known as the armenian holocaust. it decimated and led to the forced deportation of over a million armenians between 1915 and 1917, during the final phase of the ottoman empire. this holocaust, carried out by the government of young turks, was the first attempt to exterminate an entire people in the 20th century. it was followed, as we all know, by other holocausts with very clear, identical purposes. the nazis and the stalinists and we are sadly still witnessing passive persecution of political, religious and ethnic nature. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. history is haunting us, and if we do not have the courage to face up and admit the mistakes of our forefathers, we will never be able to close a black box, a chapter in our common history, and promote the much-needed reconciliation. as someone said recently, we cannot keep silent about what we have seen and heard, and that is why what we are asking for here today is not condemnation of what has happened but rather a pure recognition of the facts. thank you, sir.
forgetting the armenian and greek genocide of the black sea is a way of keeping alive the wounds of those tragic episodes and, worse than that, it is a way of prolonging the consequences of those heinous crimes. the trial of its authors is not in question today, much less any accusation against present-day turkey and its leaders, nor even the country's claim to membership of the european union. what is at stake is simply a basic gesture of justice to the memory of the one and a half million beings who were deliberately exterminated at the beginning of the 20th century. the deliberate forgetting of a crime is the worst offence that can be done to the memory of the victims, so peace will also only be just and true if it is based on the truth of historical facts.
in fact, the most difficult thing in preparing this debate was to find even accessible and available information on the policy on the recruitment of disabled people in the european union institutions and so we thought we should have accessible data on the number of applicants, how many disabled workers were recruited and why applications from disabled people were rejected. as you know, the unemployment rate of disabled people in the european union is two or three times higher than that of other citizens, and therefore the creation of a quota system would, from our point of view, be a positive step, although we agree that it is not enough. it is also necessary, and perhaps more important than that, to implement mechanisms for personal assistance to third parties, to acquire accessible software, to create technical aids of a technological nature, to ensure communication and physical accessibility, and also, in addition, to monitor whether these conditions are being met and this monitoring should be public and regular. thank you, thank you.
madam president, and sorry for the delay and a big hello. i'm not sure. the current economic stagnation in europe has worsened labour market conditions in general and made the prospects for employability and equal opportunities for people with disabilities even more difficult. we now face an increased difficulty in achieving the employment targets previously set for disabled people. within the european institutions there must therefore be a proactive and positive policy towards people with disabilities, ensuring equal conditions of access to employment. we must advocate greater awareness and education of both the people and the administration to promote fair and equal treatment that rewards people for their merit and allows their integration in the fullness of their social rights. particular attention should be paid to the way in which the european administration implements its standards of equality in access to employment for people with disabilities. my fellow colleagues. i believe that the quota system should not be seen as a panacea to counter the negative discrimination which prevails, but may even create mechanisms of exclusion. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, disabled people are not less than other people. what we should do, ladies and gentlemen, is to recognise and reward their merit and create working conditions which do not constitute obstacles to their employability. thank you, sir.
in writing. i think it is important to have recruitment quotas to enable people with disabilities to be integrated into the european institutions. the existence of these has given thousands of people the opportunity to undertake traineeships and/or work in the various institutions, thus promoting the much-desired and much-touted social inclusion. i would also like to mention that these same policies should be implemented in the various member states, because we all need to harmonise inclusion policies such as this one. these are affirmative action policies which must be applied in the various member states. we must act more and more quickly, because only by looking at this problem in a transversal way can we do more and better.
in writing. there are few and poor quality accessible databases on the number of applicants, how many disabled workers were recruited, and the reasons for rejecting applications. the unemployment rate of people with disabilities in the eu is two or three times higher than that of other citizens. the creation of a quota system would therefore be a positive step, but it would not be sufficient. it is also necessary to implement mechanisms for personal assistance to third parties, to acquire accessible software, to create technical aids of a technological nature, and to ensure communication and physical accessibility. it is also necessary to monitor and control these conditions through public mechanisms and on a regular basis.
in writing. several countries around the world have pnrs or are developing them. unfortunately, the union and its member states have allowed a process of this importance to reach a dead end. but let me be clear: not because of this parliament. it is our duty to protect the rights of european citizens, whether it is security or privacy. i therefore welcome the compromise reached by commissioner avramopoulos with the mexican authorities, but now it is time to act. the commission should obtain a mandate to negotiate the agreement as soon as possible. it is urgent to avoid sanctions against european airlines, but equally urgent to avoid bilateral agreements between member states and mexico. it would set a dangerous precedent for future agreements. a horizontal approach to pnr agreements, as the commission has already advocated, is also imperative. the personal data of our citizens must enjoy a high level of protection anywhere in the world and we must avoid situations of uncertainty and legal vacuum that put the economy and thousands of workers at risk. i repeat my scepticism about pnr systems, but since there are countries that want to impose them, it is the union's obligation to ensure that the levels of protection enjoyed by its citizens are the universal benchmark.
the milk quotas expired on 31 march. despite all the protests, a system which, despite its shortcomings, allowed for a fair distribution of the right of each state and each region to produce and guarantee minimum levels of self-sufficiency has ended. the soft landing mechanism of the last ten years points us to what's going to happen. the liberalized market will create enormous difficulties for countries where the costs of the environment are higher, concentrating production even more in northern and central europe. i was in the azores this week, one of the outermost territories, where the dairy sector accounts for about half of the regional gdp. it is therefore an entire economy that is at risk. i call on the european commission to create extraordinary support mechanisms to deal with a social emergency currently under way, with prices paid below production costs. i call for the creation of an alternative mechanism which can regulate supply and provide our producers with security and decent living conditions.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 6 052 200 for france to support the 2513 workers made redundant by mory-ducros sas.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and aims to provide assistance to workers made redundant. in the case of the french company mory ducros, which operates in the land transport sector, the number of redundancies reached 2513 out of a total of 2804 workers. in france, bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector increased by 35% per year between 2007 and 2013, as a result of the economic crisis which has led to the decline in goods production in europe, a price war in the sector and the consequent bankruptcies of companies. considering that the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, the aid package i voted for consists of vocational guidance and planning measures, egf training grants, training and upper secondary education programmes, higher education programmes, support for enterprises and self-employment, as well as income support, including the egf scheme of contributions to training costs.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the french authorities submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 2513 redundancies in the company mory-ducros sas, which is active in the land transport and in the oil and gas pipeline transport sector, with 84 redundancies in the whole of metropolitan france. i voted in favour.
‒ this report concerns france's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 2513 workers in a company engaged in land transport, pipeline transport of oil or gas and storage and rental of related materials, moryducros. the redundancies made by the company are located throughout metropolitan france. the largest number of workers made redundant (257) is concentrated in the île de france region. at the time of the redundancies, the company was the second largest operator of these services in france, operating some 4 500 vehicles per day. with the crisis, road freight transport in vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes contracted by 13,7% in the eu and 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. we agree to the mobilization of this (knowingly insufficient) aid in a hurry, although this fund only represents limited support for those who are the main victims of the capitalist crisis. we reiterate our criticism of the lack of action to halt the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to france, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf under the egf/2014/017 fr/moryducros following 2513 redundancies in the company mory-ducros sas, which operates in the economic activity classified under nace rev. 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline or pipeline), with the redundancies being spread over 84 locations throughout metropolitan france.
in writing. regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the application from france for the egf concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 052 200 for 2513 workers, of whom 2804 were made redundant in the company mory-ducros. i support the mobilisation of this financial envelope to cover the shortfalls in the road freight transport sector. this situation is also due, among other things, to the global economic and financial crisis which caused road freight transport to decline in european economic activity by 13,7% and, in the particular case of france, by 21% between 2007 and 2012 (eurostat).
in writing. ‒ france has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 2513 redundancies in the company mory-ducros sas, operating in the nace rev. 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline) during the period from 13 march to 13 july 2014. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as, on the one hand, the redundancies in question are linked to the global economic and financial crisis, as the general decline in physical production in europe, which has led to a reduction in the volumes to be transported and triggered a price war in the road freight transport sector, has led to a steady deterioration of operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france since 2007, and, on the other hand, such redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment situation in france, with a high risk of long-term unemployment and social exclusion, given the advanced age of the workers concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for france.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up precisely to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, continuation of the global financial and economic crisis. this is what happened with mory-ducros and the french authorities have given all the necessary guarantees.
in writing. mory-ducros sas, which operates in the land transport and pipeline transport sectors, faced a sharp reduction in its turnover in europe due to a general decline in the volume of raw materials or goods transported on the european market. this situation has led to a price squabble in the road freight transport sector, reducing operating margins and leading to consecutive losses since 2007. subsequently, the company went bankrupt and sent 2,513 workers to unemployment. given that the egf was set up to provide support for workers made redundant by companies that have suffered from the structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, and given that the application submitted by mory-ducros sas meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i am in favour of its mobilisation for the amount of eur 6 052 200. i would also like to leave a word of hope by noting that in this case a new company was created, mory global, which took over more than 50 branches out of a total of 84 and re-employed 2107 workers out of a total of 4911.
‒ the 2513 redundancies by mory-ducros are located throughout metropolitan france. the largest number of workers made redundant (257) is concentrated in the ile de france region. at the time of the redundancies, the company was the second largest operator of these services in france, operating some 4 500 vehicles per day. this episode is a further reflection of the general decline in production in europe, resulting in a reduction in the volumes to be transported, aggravated by an increase in various costs, in particular gasoline, which have led to a steady deterioration of operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france since 2007. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid, although this fund represents only limited support for the main targets with the consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to stop the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ this report concerns france's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 2 513 workers in a company engaged in the transport of oil and gas by land and pipeline, storage and rental of related materials, mory-ducros. the redundancies made by the company are located throughout metropolitan france. the largest number of workers made redundant (257) is concentrated in the ile de france region. at the time of the redundancies, the company was the second largest operator of these services in france, operating some 4 500 vehicles per day. following the so-called global economic and financial crisis, road freight transport by vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes contracted by 13,7% in the eu and 21% in france between 2007 and 2012 (eurostat). we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid, although this fund represents only limited support for the main targets with the consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to stop the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ this is a special legislative consultation procedure, where parliament gives its assent to the wording drawn up by the council and amended by parliament, concerning the establishment of the social protection committee, and the council has to inform parliament if it deviates from the wording it has itself drawn up and approved by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have no objection to the proposed amendments, because they reinforce the sense of community in europe and the attention it should give to all citizens, regardless of their status. in the cases under consideration, ensuring a high and sustainable level of health care for all and better coordination of social, socioeconomic and employment policies are aspects which deserve my agreement.
‒ this committee, called the social protection committee, is set up in an advisory capacity with the express objective of promoting cooperation between the member states and with the commission in matters of social protection policies, in full compliance with the treaty and with due regard for the powers of the union institutions and bodies. full respect for the treaty means nothing but the subordination of social rights and protection to free competition in the single market, as evidenced by the case law of the court of justice of the eu. in other words, the secondary status of social progress in relation to the 'market economy'. this committee is set up to strengthen the social dimension of emu in order to contribute to all aspects of the european semester. that is, to legitimize all the economic policies that the european commission has imposed on countries by further cuts in spending, in the social functions of the state, by privatising public resources, by promoting redundancies and by making labour costs cheaper. these measures are totally contrary to the stated social objectives. we don't fall for the bait. we voted against it.
‒ the establishment of the social protection committee is very relevant to strengthening the social dimension of emu. the social and labour market situation within emu should be better monitored and taken into account, in particular through the use of appropriate social and employment indicators in the context of the european semester. it is also important to ensure better coordination of social, socioeconomic and employment policies, while fully respecting national competences.
‒ the sustainability of social protection systems, coupled with demographic change, requires member states to present long-term, sustainable strategies, identifying problems and possible solutions. although this is a matter for the member states, the european commission has put forward a mechanism for further cooperation and strengthening on the issues of modernisation and improvement of social protection. the high level committee, which has also been approved by the council, aims to help the member states to strengthen their social systems, while taking account of the priorities of each state. because of its importance for the maintenance of the european social state, where gender equality is one of the principles to be taken into account, i am in favour of the creation of a social protection committee.
in writing. the conclusions of the lisbon european council of 23 and 24 march 2000 pointed to the importance of modernising and improving the social protection system in the eu and called for enhanced cooperation between member states to exchange experience and best practice. in the context of the overall challenge of modernising social protection systems, the commission has identified four main objectives: making work rewarding and ensuring a secure income; ensuring pension security and the sustainability of pension schemes; promoting social inclusion; and ensuring a high and sustainable level of health care. the council supported the commission's proposal to establish a mechanism for closer cooperation, through the work of a group of high-level officials, for the implementation of this action. the committee shall keep under review the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the member states and in the union, and shall prepare reports and formulate opinions in its fields of competence at the request of the council or the commission or on its own initiative. this decision establishes the social protection committee. i voted in favour.
‒ the financial crisis has had a terrible effect on the quality of life of a very significant part of the european population. the poverty rates are alarming. it is the duty of the european union to make every effort to help the member states to improve and strengthen their social protection systems in the light of their national priorities. we can't fail when people need it most. we need to redefine priorities and ensure the sustainability of pension systems by promoting social inclusion and health care.
in writing. ‒ social protection is an area that deserves our full attention and the european union is a global paradigm for social protection systems. in this connection, i welcome the proposal to set up a social protection committee, which goes in line with the conclusions of the lisbon european council of 23 and 24 march 2000. this mechanism will allow for greater cooperation between member states to improve and enhance their social protection systems. i also agree with the four objectives identified by the commission in the field of the modernisation of social protection systems, which also falls within the competence of the member states. the committee will thus be able to monitor the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the member states and in the european union, facilitating the exchange of information, the sharing of experience and the development of good practice in this field.
‒ cuts in spending, in the social functions of the state, privatisation of public resources, promotion of redundancies and making labour costs cheaper are totally contradictory to respond to social objectives advocated by the social protection committee. the committee, which was set up to strengthen the social dimension of emu, serves only to legitimize all aspects of the european semester. that is to legitimize all the economic policies which the commission has imposed on countries. we voted against it.
‒ the social protection committee is set up in an advisory capacity with the formally stated objective of 'promoting cooperation between member states and with the commission in matters of social protection policies, in full respect of the treaty and with due regard for the competences of the institutions and bodies of the union'. it looks harmless! in fact, this committee is set up to strengthen the social dimension of emu, so as to contribute to all aspects of the european semester. that is, to legitimize all the economic policies that the european commission has imposed on countries by further cuts in spending, in the social functions of the state, by privatising public resources, by promoting redundancies and by making labour costs cheaper. these measures are totally contrary to the stated social objectives. we voted against it.
‒ this is a special legislative consultation procedure, where parliament gives its assent to the wording drawn up by the council for the establishment of the employment committee, and the council has to inform parliament if it deviates from the wording it has itself drawn up and approved by parliament.
‒ the establishment of the employment committee is provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this advisory committee is formally established to 'reflect the development of the european semester'. that is, this employment committee should contribute to the adoption of the broad economic policy guidelines in order to ensure consistency between the employment guidelines and the broad guidelines, and to contribute to the synergy between the european employment strategy, macroeconomic policy coordination and the economic reform process in a mutually beneficial way. we ask ourselves: to whose advantage? the european semester is not for the workers. the question is to legitimize instruments for social regression, as is clearly the case with the european semester, under the guise of an apparent social concern. we don't fall for the bait. we voted against it.
‒ the establishment of the employment committee is very relevant to strengthening the social dimension of emu. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the creation of this high level committee for employment comes at a time when the union and the member states are working together on solutions for the coordination of employment and labour market policies in the different member states. i am voting in favour of this proposal, as i consider it essential that the union's macroeconomic policy and its pillar of economic governance be linked to employment policies. consultation with the social partners is also part of their duties. the composition of the committee is defined by the appointment of one member from each member state, together with the european commission.
‒ in accordance with article 5 tfeu, the eu takes measures to ensure coordination of member states' employment policies with a view to enhancing their effectiveness and developing a coordinated strategy for employment. this resolution endorses the decision to set up an advisory committee, the employment committee, whose task is to monitor developments in the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and the union, to deliver opinions at the request of the council or the commission or on its own initiative, and to assist in the preparation of the council's deliberations referred to in article 148 tfeu. the members of the committee and their alternates shall be chosen from among senior officials or experts with leading competence in the field of employment and labour market policy in the member states. i voted in favour.
‒ any measure aimed at reducing unemployment in the countries of the european union will always be positive. we look forward to the decisions of the employment committee having a real impact on improving the quality of life of european citizens.
‒ on the basis of the principle laid down in article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the union shall take measures to ensure coordination of the employment policies of the member states with a view to enhancing their effectiveness by developing a coordinated strategy for employment. in developing this strategy, i welcome the creation of the employment committee and the partnership work being established with the social partners and other bodies and committees in the field of social and economic policy. while it is advisory, the committee should be able to ensure the implementation of the european employment strategy and promote greater coordination between member states on employment and labour market policies.
‒ the establishment of the employment committee is provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is just another cosmetics magazine that is designed to cast a smokescreen over the anti-social policies of the european union and their devastating effects on the population and workers.
‒ the establishment of the employment committee is provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this advisory committee is formally set up to 'reflect the development of the european semester'. this means that the employment committee should contribute to the adoption of the broad economic policy guidelines in order to ensure consistency between the employment guidelines and the general guidelines and to contribute to the synergy between the european employment strategy, the coordination of macroeconomic policy and the process of economic reform in a mutually beneficial way. we ask ourselves: to whose advantage? i am sure that, following the logic of the european semester, it will not be for the workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 as its rapid adoption is indispensable for the start of the new period of cohesion policy, ensuring the fullest use of financial resources, which are necessary for the dynamisation of the economy and employment.
‒ the transfer of unused appropriations in 2014 to subsequent years to finance structural fund programmes worth eur 21.1 billion deserves my agreement. in order to ensure that 300 programmes (47% of the total) financed by the european funds do not lose last year's appropriations, it was necessary to carry out this review by allowing the commitment appropriations not used in 2014 to be carried over to subsequent years, beyond the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the european data protection supervisor and to ensure the proper functioning of the european data protection supervisor. a first tranche of eur 16,5 billion is to be transferred to 2015, a second tranche of eur 4,5 billion to 2016 and a third tranche of eur 100 million to 2017.
‒ this report allows the unused portion of the structural and investment funds in 2014 to be carried over to the next years, ensuring that it is not lost. the under-utilisation of the funds is due to the late adoption of the respective regulations, which led to only a small percentage of programmes being adopted by the end of 2014. the appropriations not used in 2014 and not carried over to 2015 are very significant, amounting to 15% of the 2014 budget. hence the need for a revision of the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020) to ensure budgetary commitment and payments to the various programmes that have been delayed. in practice, this review will allow unauthorised funds to be preserved and used in 2015 and beyond. the alternative to this modification would be that these resources would not be used and would be lost to this area (operational programmes) and that the appropriations would be reduced in the member states' contributions to the eu budget for the current year, which would benefit above all the wealthier countries. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ with the late adoption of regulation (eu/euratom) no 1311/2013, it is necessary to establish a new mff for the period 2014-2020 to accommodate the necessary transfers of funds. the transfer of appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years is intended to finance programmes under the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. due to the late adoption of several programmes, eur 21,1 billion was not used in 2014. that's why i'm in favour.
‒ on 1 january 2014, new rules or programmes in shared management entered into force for the structural funds: the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. in this regard, the multiannual financial framework should be revised with a view to transferring appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years, beyond the corresponding expenditure ceilings. i therefore vote in favour of this report which aims to transfer almost all cohesion policy appropriations not used in 2014 to subheading 1b 'economic, social and territorial cohesion' for 2015, with the exception of the erdf contributions to cross-border programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni), which are transferred to 2017.
in writing. the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 has made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in time and the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 is necessary. the european structural and investment funds constitute the most important investment policy of the union and it is therefore essential that all resources are used in a timely manner and in the most effective way possible to generate growth and jobs. the new programming period has already been significantly delayed, and it is important to ensure that no further delays or losses occur. this proposal sets out the mff for the period 2014-2020 and aims to transfer almost all unused appropriations in 2014 to 2015 to subheading 1b 'economic, social and territorial cohesion'. the only exception concerns certain contributions from the erdf, which will be carried over to 2017. the transfer of appropriations is an indispensable step to complete the process of starting the new programming period of cohesion policy, in order to avoid any negative impact on regions and cities and, consequently, on european citizens. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ this proposal aims to transfer almost all the unused appropriations in 2014 to the current year 2015. as the european structural and investment funds are the eu's most important investment policy, it is essential that all resources are used in a timely manner and in the most effective way possible to generate growth and jobs. it is important above all to ensure that there are no further delays or losses, often the result of the excessive bureaucratization of the european system itself.
in writing. ‒ the timely adoption of all operational programmes has been difficult to achieve due to the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in fact, 47% of the programmes - equivalent to 300 union programmes - need a revision of the multiannual financial framework so that they do not lose the 2014 appropriations and can be carried over to subsequent years. i therefore welcome the proposal for a recommendation presented here and the rapporteur's position that this decision to transfer almost all the unused appropriations in 2014 to the sub-heading on 'economic, social and territorial cohesion' for 2015 - with the exception of the erdf contributions to cross-border programmes and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni), which are transferred to 2017 - is an indispensable step towards completing the process of starting the new programming period for cohesion policy, avoiding any negative impacts on regions and cities and, for good reason, on european citizens.
‒ we welcome this flexibility mechanism which allows for the reallocation of funds not used in 2014 to the next years, thus allowing the continuity of some 300 projects currently under way to be safeguarded. this was to be expected, given the long application procedures under the new community framework. the commission should take measures to make the deadlines more flexible. we cannot but take advantage of this debate to stress once again that this multiannual plan, which for the first time in the history of the eu has reduced its rate of effort, is in contradiction with the propaganda which calls for a europe of social cohesion but then does not give it the means to correct the asymmetries, all the more so in a period when the eu itself constrains the national states and uses expansionist policies. we do not understand why the extraordinary revenue from own resources is not being used to try to reduce this deficit, which remains a stain on the credibility of the eu, which imposes on the national states what it cannot do at home.
‒ this is a proposal to allow for the reallocation of the funds not used in 2014 from the structural funds to the next years, due to the late adoption of the new cohesion policy rules for the period 2014-2020. this is why only a small percentage of programmes at the end of 2014 were adopted. the appropriations that could not be used in 2014 and that were not carried over to 2015 are very significant, amounting to over eur 21 million, equivalent to 15% of the 2014 budget. this is why the mff needs to be revised to ensure that the budgetary commitments and payments for the various programmes which have been delayed are made. in practice, this review will allow unauthorised funds to be preserved and used in 2015 and beyond. the alternative to this modification would be that these resources were not used and lost to this area (operational programmes) and these appropriations reduced in the member states' contributions to the eu budget in the current year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. it is important not to silence the brutality of massacres and forced deportations in the name of policies of cultural homogenization. admitting and acknowledging the mistakes of the past is essential to closing this dark chapter of history and promoting reconciliation.
‒ the european parliament was one of the first institutions at international level to recognise the armenian genocide in 1987. the european parliament has called on the turkish government to recognise the genocide of armenians in 1915-1917. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. in a resolution adopted in 1987 on a political solution to the armenian question, the european parliament stated that it was 'of the opinion that the tragic events of 1915-1917 against armenians established in the territory of the ottoman empire constitute genocide within the meaning of the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide adopted by the un general assembly on 9 december 1948'.
in writing. ‒ on 24 april, the date on which more than 200 armenian intellectuals and leaders were arrested and later murdered, marks the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, considered the first genocide of the 20th century. in the last years of the ottoman empire, between 1915 and 1923, first the young turk movement, then the turkish nationalists, organizations of a nationalist nature, as part of a plan to liquidate the armenian minority in the territory that would later constitute the republic of turkey, persecuted, arrested, deported and murdered hundreds of thousands of human beings. academic debate remains, but it seems to point to the extermination or removal of the entire armenian population from that region, accounting for between 1 and 1.5 million deaths out of a population of about 2 million people. a historical example which should serve as a warning not to lose sight of the present, in the face of the emergence of nationalist and nazi-fascist movements, such as in ukraine, where they have the support of the eu and the usa. in any case, this memory must not serve to create divisions between the armenian and turkish peoples. we voted in favour.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ it is important to underline that 2015 marks the centenary of the armenian genocide perpetrated under the ottoman empire and that an increasing number of member states and national parliaments condemn heinous crimes against humanity, of which this genocide is an example. on this centenary, i would like to join in the european parliament's just tribute to the approximately 1.5 million innocent armenians who lost their lives under the ottoman empire and condemn all the cases of crimes against humanity and genocide that still exist in the 21st century. i am voting in favour of this report and hope that both armenia and turkey will follow the successful examples of reconciliation between european nations and adopt an agenda that puts cooperation between peoples first.
‒ the european parliament joins the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide, paying tribute to the memory of the innocent people who lost their lives in the tragic events perpetrated under the ottoman empire during the period 1915-1917. the resolution also welcomes the statements by the turkish president, recep tayyip erdoğan, expressing his condolences and acknowledging the atrocities perpetrated, and encourages turkey to use the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide as an opportunity to continue its efforts to pave the way for a genuine reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. it stressed that the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity should be among the main priorities of the international community and the european union. i voted in favour.
‒ it is a reconciliation with the past. in states, as in men, taking on the past, however terrible, will always be a sign of maturity and goodwill. until that happens, the armenian genocide will always be there, like a shadow over europe.
‒ it is with sadness, but also with the deep conviction that these dates and the facts behind them must be remembered and explained to the new generations, that i join the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide with this resolution, which aims to pay tribute to the memory of the 1.5 million innocent armenians who lost their lives a hundred years ago, victims of genocide and crimes against humanity perpetrated in the territory of the then ottoman empire. because humanity (and especially the younger generations) can never forget what its darker side is capable of, i consider it extremely important to establish an international day of genocide remembrance, so that the memory of the past is kept alive and mutual understanding and tolerance, reconciliation and the promotion of peace among peoples can be stimulated.
‒ more than 200 armenian intellectuals and leaders were arrested and later murdered on april 24, 1915 in what is considered the first genocide of the 20th century. in the last years of the ottoman empire, between 1915 and 1923, nationalist organizations persecuted, imprisoned, deported and murdered hundreds of thousands of human beings. it accounts for between 1 and 1.5 million deaths out of a population of about 2 million people according to various estimates not always coincident. this example should serve as a warning not to lose sight of the present, with the emergence of nationalist and nazi-fascist movements, which have been receiving support, in particular from the eu and the usa. we stress that this case must not serve to create divisions between the armenian and turkish peoples.
in writing. it is right to remember and honour all the peoples who were victims of the horrors of nazi-fascism. it is therefore right to pay tribute to the roma people, victims of the nazi barbarity of the second world war, an act committed by a regime based on fascism and its worst expression, nazism, a racist, xenophobic and terrorist dictatorship in the service of the great german capital which pushed almost all of europe into a war in which more than 60 million people died, many of them murdered in concentration camps. this is all the more important as today there are more and more racist, xenophobic and fascist phenomena and movements which are attacking the rights of migrants, minorities and various peoples, including the roma, and when the dominant ideology of the eu whitewashes fascism and carries out ideological campaigns of historical revisionism which seek to equate the nazi beast with those who, like the communists and other democrats and patriots, fought against it, and then went on to rehabilitate and support coup forces, fascists and neo-nazis, of which the example of ukraine is perhaps the most dangerous.
‒ this proposal was aimed at the recognition by the european union of the day of remembrance of the gypsy genocide during the second world war. there are between 10 and 12 million ethnic roma living in europe, making the roma people the largest ethnic minority on the continent. this contingent has suffered throughout history from severe discrimination, culminating in one of the most significant systematic persecutions ever carried out in europe, the persecution that occurred during the second world war by force of nazi racial ideology, leading hundreds of thousands of roma to concentration camps, exposing this minority to aggressive forms of violence, exploitation, genocide (500 000 dead) and general stigmatization of them, something that continues to this day. this is the only way to explain the degree of social exclusion and poverty in which many roma live, unaware of their importance in the construction of the culture and history of the european people. to this end, the european parliament and i voted in favour of the recognition of the un initiative to mark 27 january as the european gypsy holocaust remembrance day, commemorating the day of the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau by allied troops in 1945.
‒ roma, with an estimated population of 10 to 12 million, are the largest ethnic minority in europe and many of them still live in extraordinarily precarious conditions and face extreme levels of social exclusion and discrimination. women are often exposed to multiple and intersectoral discrimination on grounds of gender and ethnic origin and have limited access to employment, education, health, social services and decision-making capacity. it is estimated that at least 500,000 roma were exterminated by the nazis and other regimes and their allies during the second world war, and that in some countries more than 80% of the roma population was exterminated. i therefore agree that discrimination and marginalisation are essentially the result of the fact that society in general does not recognise the rights of individuals and that the necessary structures do not exist to enable individuals to invoke those rights. member states should effectively implement the directive establishing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin in order to prevent and eliminate discrimination against roma, in particular in employment, education and access to housing.
in writing. it is right to remember and honour all the gypsies who died during the nazi barbarity of the second world war, an act committed by a regime based on fascism and its worst expression, nazism, a racist, xenophobic and terrorist dictatorship in the service of german capital, which pushed almost the whole of europe into a war in which more than 50 million people died, many of them murdered in concentration camps. we must not, however, fail to deplore and denounce the historical revisionism which tends to conceal and misrepresent the role of the communists in the second world war. murdered by the nazi regime, men and women who from the first hour faced the regime with audacity - paying with their own lives - organized the resistance and fought until the expulsion and defeat of the invaders, making an indispensable, central and unavoidable contribution to liberation and victory.
‒ hostility towards roma must be combated at all levels and by all means, as this is a particularly persistent, violent, recurrent and common phenomenon and form of racism. i therefore support the initiative to dedicate a european day of remembrance to the roma victims of the genocide during the second world war and that this day should be designated as the european day of remembrance of the roma victims of the holocaust. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the integration of the roma community remains a challenge for most member states. in addition to the global plan of action, adopted by the osce countries, in 2011 the union called on member states to adopt a comprehensive approach to the genuine integration of the roma community. this document also deals with the recognition of the genocide of the gypsies by the nazis. according to estimates, we are talking about at least 500 000 exterminated gypsies, and most of the european population is unaware of this fact. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution which calls attention to the need for member states to apply existing rules on the principle of equal treatment. 'united in diversity' must be the principle that guides our activity.
‒ gypsies, with an estimated population of 10 to 12 million, are the largest ethnic minority in europe and are part of european society, culture and values. however, many roma still live in extraordinarily precarious conditions and face extreme levels of social exclusion and discrimination. the situation of these citizens and their contribution to europe differ from that of other national minorities, which justifies specific measures at european level. on the other hand, according to estimates, at least 500,000 gypsies were exterminated by the nazis and other regimes (and their allies) during the second world war. finally, it is essential to recall the crimes against humanity and the flagrant violations of human rights and to ensure the defence of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe. the resolution condemns in the strongest terms and in the strongest terms all forms of racism and discrimination against roma, calls on the member states to step up the fight against hostility towards roma and calls for a european day of remembrance for roma victims of the genocide during the second world war. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we must ensure that the fundamental rights of every citizen without exception, as well as democracy and the rule of law, are respected by all member states. we must also effectively monitor and assess member states' compliance with these values and respond to any systemic breaches. discrimination and marginalisation result from the fact that society does not recognise the rights of individuals and that the necessary structures do not exist to enable individuals to invoke those rights. this is where the fight against hostility towards roma comes in, in the context of the member states' national strategies for the integration of this community, promoting best practice and the fundamental values of the european union. the genocide of the roma by the nazis and other regimes during the second world war cannot be allowed to remain a fact largely ignored by the majority of the population.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i consider it extremely pertinent that the european parliament should recognise the genocide of the roma population which took place during the second world war, for the same reasons which i have mentioned for the resolution on the armenian genocide. unfortunately, we have seen a growth in hostility towards roma and other minorities which is not compatible with the set of principles and values which govern the european union. i therefore stress the need to implement effectively directive 2000/43/ec on the application of the principle of equal treatment between persons and framework decision 2008/913/jha on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law.
‒ there is legitimate concern about the increase in hostility towards roma, demonstrated in particular by the rhetoric and acts of violence, including murders, against roma in europe, which are incompatible with the rules and values of the european union and constitute a major obstacle to the social integration of roma and the full respect for their human rights. we support the condemnation of all forms of racism and discrimination faced by roma and stress the need to combat hostility towards roma effectively so that measures in other areas can also be effective. however, we believe that this resolution should go into the causes of this phenomenon and the role of anti-social policies which affect the general population, generating poverty and unemployment, and a breeding ground where racism and xenophobia find favourable conditions to develop.
in writing. on 24 april, the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, considered the first genocide of the 20th century, was marked when more than 200 armenian intellectuals and leaders were arrested and later murdered. in the last years of the ottoman empire, between 1915 and 1923, first with the young turk movement, then with the turkish nationalists, organizations of a nationalist nature, as part of a plan to liquidate the armenian minority in the territory that later constituted the republic of turkey, persecuted, arrested, deported and murdered hundreds of thousands of human beings. academic debate remains, but it seems to point to the extermination or removal of the entire armenian population from that region, accounting for between 1 and 1.5 million deaths out of a population of about 2 million people. a historical example of the consequences of nationalist movements, which should serve as a warning not to lose sight of the present, with the emergence of nationalist and nazi-fascist movements, which have been supported, in particular, by the eu and the usa. in any case, this memory must not serve to create divisions between the armenian and turkish peoples. we voted in favour.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague olga sehnalová on her work. after three trilogues and a lot of work, a compromise was reached which makes it possible to put into practice a project that this parliament has been calling for since 2003. as the epp shadow rapporteur for this report, i support the text which is to be voted on in this house tomorrow and which represents added value for road safety and for the lives of our citizens. it's never too late to remember that ecall saves lives! in a europe where thousands of families are suffering from the tragedy of road accidents, the introduction of the ecall system with direct connection to the european emergency number 112 is not a duty... it's more than a right. by automatically establishing a direct link to the european emergency number 112 in the event of a car accident, by transmitting a minimum set of data on the accident, vehicle and passengers, ecall will allow for faster, more efficient and less costly assistance. and at a time when many say that we do not need more europe, the ecall legislation on type approval requirements for the deployment of the 112-based system on board vehicles is a good example of how much we really need 'more europe'. and how we can make an effective contribution at european level to such important matters as reducing mortality and better caring for road accident victims. i would also stress that ecall is free, secure, works in all member states and complies with strict data protection rules. the mandatory introduction of the ecall system based on the european emergency number for light and commercial vehicles from march 2018 will, i am sure, improve the road safety and civil protection landscape.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, alcohol consumption is a habit rooted in european society since ancient times and, if done in moderation, is benign, both socially and economically. however, alcohol abuse is the number one risk factor for disease and premature death among 25- to 59-year-olds. its abuse also represents a negative economic impact of around eur 155 billion per year. i therefore call for the renewal of the european alcohol strategy which has proven to be very useful and results-oriented and which ended in 2012. central to the treatment of alcohol is certainly the differentiated approach between what is different, i.e. between drinking in moderation and problematic patterns of alcohol consumption, as well as the recognition of regional and sub-regional variation in patterns of consumption and consideration of the different vulnerability of different segments of the population to the harmful effects of alcohol. particular consideration should be given to young people and the age at which they begin to drink. we must give priority to the issues of drinking during pregnancy, drunk driving and adopting healthy lifestyles. consumers should be provided with the necessary information in terms of public health. there is a wide diversity of practices in the member states with regard to labelling, the lack of guidelines and some level of standardisation, which translates into unnecessary costs for businesses and barriers to the single market. another important aspect is the definition of respect for the principle of subsidiarity and a minimum age for the purchase of alcohol, since from a medical/scientific point of view brain development continues well beyond that age. we must continue to improve instruments that promote good practice, gathering better indicators to evaluate the measures taken.
mr president, citizens must be aware of the harmful consequences of alcohol consumption. awareness of this should be a concern included in public health strategies with a particular focus on the prevention of additive behaviours. on the other hand, care should be taken in the communication and information relating to alcoholic beverages with a view to providing the best possible information to the consumer and discouraging potentially harmful consumption behaviour. but it is also important in this debate to highlight the economic and social dimension of production which is part of various cultural and territorial traditions in europe, ensuring that the european gastronomic culture of wine is not simply demonized and thus unduly damaged.
madam president, alcohol consumption remains one of the main causes of death in europe and is associated with a number of preventable diseases. in 2006, the european strategy to support member states in minimising the harmful effects of alcohol was presented. the strategy identified as priorities, among others, the protection of young people and children, the prevention of drunk driving, the reduction of harmful effects of adults, and, having ended in 2012, it is easy to see how much remains to be done in each of these areas. moreover, during the period of this strategy, the crisis and the policies of social devastation implemented in its name not only gave rise to new situations of dependency and overconsumption, but also disrupted the necessary response capacity of public health services at various levels in several member states. we have already seen that a new strategy does not seem to be a priority for the commission, but what is worse is that a reversal of policies is not on the commission's agenda either. more than legislative folklore with a limited practical scope, we need a real policy reversal.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the presentation, two years after the terrible tragedy, of the technical report which i consider to be a demonstration of the cruelty of the present situation. this justifies the need for continued involvement of the international community in protecting workers' rights and building safety. it is the best way, moreover, to honour the memory of those who sadly lost their lives in the workplace. i also welcome the emergence of important initiatives by various international organizations, which have brought together companies, governments and trade unions and which have contributed to the improvement - clearly still insufficient - of the country's working conditions. these are good initiatives that urge us to continue. because 30% of the compensation for the victims and their families is still missing. so the government of bangladesh must remain committed to building a stronger and better prepared state until private aid ends in 2018.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr walesa, on the work he has done and on the dialogue. the member states of the european union committed themselves in 2002 in johannesburg to maintain and restore fisheries resources to levels that can produce a maximum sustainable yield as urgently as possible and no later than 2015. tomorrow we shall be voting on the first multiannual plan and it is our duty to make this precedent precise and appropriate. many fish stocks need to replenish their biomass. the fishing rate must therefore be set at a maximum sustainable level of catch mortality, which ensures that current economic income does not undermine its stability for the future. to ensure that the maximum sustainable yield is resilient, a precautionary approach should be used by keeping catches at levels 10 to 20% below the maximum calculated fishing mortality rate. setting a target of 80% of the expected fishing mortality to maintain maximum sustainable yield will ensure a further step forward from what was promised in 2002.
mr president, it seems very important to stress that this regulation will effectively mark the transition from the previous common fisheries policy to the new common fisheries policy, which is more oriented towards holistic sustainability. finally, the old rejections will be taken into account in the management of the springs, which is fundamental from the point of view of scientific management and which i welcome from the political point of view. however, this new approach will have collateral implications which should merit attention. in this context, there are multi-specific fisheries in portugal. in these cases, it is enough for a species to occur with its quota exhausted or its quota zero to close the whole fishery. the specific case of the black swordfish fishery, a century-old artisanal fishery, will be blocked by the impossibility of catching the catfish shark by accident, for which a zero quota has been set. the consequences will therefore require careful attention from the executive body of the union.
mr president, the return of fish to the sea without the possibility of survival is an unsustainable practice and one that is justly repulsive, a practice with a very diverse range of causes ranging from the absence of commercial value of fish that would be in good condition to be consumed to management measures to inadequate management. what is important is to understand the enormous diversity of situations that characterises fishing in the european union and to understand that the implementation of this provision of the common fisheries policy has completely different requirements if we are talking about multi-species and predominantly artisanal fisheries or monospecific and predominantly industrial fisheries in the north. there are questions that remain unanswered, as we have seen recently in the delegation of the azores fisheries commission. who pays for the maintenance on board the fish? who is responsible for collecting and forwarding them? who pays for these operations? these were questions that, once again, the industry raised. during the debate here on the reform of the common fisheries policy we tabled amendments to respond to them. they have been rendered unworkable by most, but the questions, those, continue to be asked by the industry.
mr president, we were told that the infamous troika had left portugal, but the truth is that the policy of extortion, theft and confiscation of portuguese workers continued. not formally by the troika, but now under the close supervision of the european commission in the framework of the european semester and in the name of compliance with the budgetary treaty. if anyone here thinks that one can be against the troika and for the european semester, he is mistaken, because they are exactly the same thing. proof of this is the stability programme presented by the portuguese government which continues to cut wages, cuts 600 million euros in pensioners' pensions in order to destroy public social security, and aims for another 400 million in cuts in public administration, which will mean more layoffs and fewer public services, while reducing taxes on large capital. more and more workers are saying that they will not have the right to a decent life without a break with the rules of the budgetary treaty and the euro, which are always designed to benefit them.
in writing. if you ask students and teachers what has changed most with the bologna process in higher education, most will tell you: the costs of higher education have increased immensely for students and their families, while the quality of curricula has decreased, by shortening the duration of each cycle. in short, today a student who does not have the financial capacity to pay the very high tuition fees for a second cycle, and assuming that he will have the money to cover the costs of the first cycle, will always have a level of qualifications that puts him at a disadvantage in the search for employment, which almost inevitably throws him into precariousness. the bologna process has elitised higher education, exacerbated student inequalities, put big business at the helm of institutions, to the detriment of the representation of students and other members of the university community. none of this is necessary for cooperation between institutions and student mobility. what is needed is for governments to invest in free, quality public education for all, supporting especially the students with fewer resources. what is needed is for the eu to stop pressuring its budgets, making this objective unfeasible.
about 40% of the european union's land area is covered by forest. the evolving climate change context brings new risks, such as increased occurrence of fires and pests and diseases, which require increased attention from public policies. only in this way will it be possible to preserve the multifunctional role of forests and promote their sustainable management. the debate and reflection on this forestry strategy to promote an approach towards these objectives is welcome. this approach must be underpinned by the notion that the value of forests goes beyond their merely commercial value, directly linked to wood products. the value of the forest also accounts for its various functions, such as soil and water protection, carbon sequestration and landscape and biodiversity protection, as well as the value of activities linked to hunting, grazing and recreation. and it is this value that we must preserve and enhance.
mr president, commissioner, although this directive predates the energy union communication, we now have the opportunity to reassess it in the light of a new perspective, a european union that prioritises renewable energy, security of supply, energy efficiency and leadership in innovation and research. the proposals in this report are fairly balanced and call for the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal for the promotion of the use of renewable energy in transport from 2020 onwards. in this respect, apart from the necessary encouragement of the most advanced technologies, in particular the next generation of biofuels which minimise competition with other sectors and minimise the emission of greenhouse gases, it is important, commissioner, to consider the ambitious objective for the development of electric mobility. electric mobility, using electricity also produced from renewable sources, in conjunction with biofuels, could provide very high levels of penetration of endogenous energy in transport and this is very important in contributing to the energy security of the european union, in reducing dependence and in leading the new era of the transport industry in european terms. what we do by 2020 will indelibly mark our ability to lead the energy transition. the energy transition in europe is a necessity for the planet and we also want to see it happen. the european parliament has made a positive contribution to this by the document under consideration today.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you all for this debate and for the very constructive comments that you have all made. a number of examples already mentioned, outlining the measures some member states have taken to curb the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags, do prove that action is effective. as an example, ms auken mentioned ireland. another example is scotland where early figures from retailers show that single-use carrier bag usage has fallen by more than 80% since a charge was introduced last october. these are just a few, and not the only member states that have actually taken action. once this amendment to the packaging and packaging waste directive is adopted and has entered into force, member states will have the tools available for effective action. they are responsible for the crucial task of implementation. the first step they have to take is to choose from among the instruments available to them to reduce the use of plastic carrier bags. i would also like to add that this directive addresses a major problem at source from a preventive perspective, and i have to say that the more preventive action we take today the less remedial action we will need tomorrow – especially in terms of marine litter, as was mentioned several times by a number of the members of this parliament. as many also mentioned, marine litter is a huge environmental problem threatening mainly, but not only, our marine biodiversity. i would say that this is a global problem needing a global solution. today we are only talking about the eu consumption of plastic bags but the problem is much bigger than that. i can assure everyone here that we will continue to take this problem very seriously and monitor it accordingly. the new directive also entrusts the commission with a number of tasks, such as the development of a methodology for calculating the annual per capita consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, the development of labels or marks to ensure union-wide recognition of biodegradable and compostable plastic carrier bags, and assessing the impact of the use of oxo-degradable plastic carrier bags on the environment. we will tackle these tasks without delay with a view to meeting the – frankly more than challenging – deadlines agreed in the compromise. the compromise reached is an important step forward in addressing the issue of plastic waste, endorsed by overwhelming public support. i think that, through this new directive, we can demonstrate that the eu is able to effectively respond to matters of concern to citizens as well.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner arias cañete, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the council is not present in this important document. the transport sector is responsible for about a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, second only to the energy sector. in 2012, greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector were split between road transport with a majority of 72% of the total against 12,8% for civil aviation, less than 1% for rail transport and 13,9% for the total shipping sector. between 1990 and 2007, co2 emissions in sectors other than transport decreased, while in this sector they increased by 36%. although the economic crisis has contributed to the slowdown in greenhouse gas emissions, we are already seeing the first signs that these emissions are rising again. unlike other forms of transport, the shipping sector has remained the only one not subject to any co2-reduction measures. in view of this, the 2020 energy and climate framework provides for a review clause for the inclusion of maritime transport in the union's reduction targets in the event that an international agreement is not reached in the meantime. we will be adopting legislation at this plenary session which is a first step towards reducing these emissions, which represent around 4% of co2 emissions in the european union. contrary to the objectives of decarbonising the european economy, in the medium and long term, if nothing is done, greenhouse gas emissions from ships will increase by more than 50% by 2050. the adoption of this regulation at second reading will, in my view, meet three important policy objectives: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the maritime sector, in particular the maritime transport sector. regardless of the progress made in this forum, in terms of setting targets for emission reductions being somewhat disappointing, the truth is that cooperation with our international partners is essential in terms of climate policy and the european union is once again taking the lead in this area. we will continue our efforts and this is one of the steps towards an ambitious agreement of an international nature. secondly, this legislation will combine the monitoring of co2 emissions with energy efficiency data from ships and the transparency of this data. the european commission will make reliable information on energy consumption and efficiency of ships available to the market on an annual basis. in this way, we will be able to remove barriers to the sector adopting technical and operational measures that will translate into co2 emission reductions at lower net costs, i.e. around eur 1.2 billion per year, as well as a higher competitiveness of european maritime transport, which will benefit international trade. finally, this legislation will have the potential to create some 10 000 jobs in green technology areas linked to the maritime sector, as well as public health benefits related to lower emissions of other pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and fine particulate matter. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a robust system of monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions is a precondition and a cornerstone for any further emission reduction measures that may be decided for this sector in the near future. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me on this dossier, colleagues christopher fjellner, jytte guteland, julie girling, bas eickout, josu juaristi abaunz and marco affronte, as well as president giovanni la via and vice-president benedek jávor, for their excellent collaboration. i would also like to thank the representatives of the european commission, in particular mrs mary veronica pleterski and her team, the council, mrs roberta di lecce and mr wilhelm bargum, political adviser to the alde group, who were involved in the negotiations, for their always constructive attitude.
carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels are the main cause of so-called 'greenhouse gases' and thus of the intensification of global climate change, but also of ocean acidification. all sources of emissions must be reduced as a matter of urgency. in the case of maritime transport in particular, it is essential to reduce the use of heavy fuels and to switch to alternative sources such as liquefied natural gas or other environmentally sound sources. this transformation will have to be accompanied by the use of intermediate refuelling points and the azores, located in the middle of the atlantic, in transit between the panama canal and europe, are ready to respond positively to this need through their ocean port infrastructure of praia da vitoria.
madam president, shipping is in a position to become an even more important part of global freight transport in the future. it is therefore important to take into account the dependence of this sector on fossil fuels and to implement measures to reduce the associated greenhouse gas emissions. some concerns, some ideas for the future, the exploitation of the potential of liquefied natural gas, the transition to low-carbon technologies as a medium-term objective, the rejection of market solutions adopted in other sectors, such as the carbon market, giving preference to normative solutions and the need to recognise the specific situation and needs of the outermost regions and, in particular, the need to ensure public transport services, regular links between islands and between them and the mainland, both for people and for cargo, on a regular basis.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i would like to thank this parliament and in particular the rapporteur and the alternate rapporteurs for their great work. this regulation is an important signal and is consistent with the european council conclusions on the 2030 climate and energy framework and confirms that all economic sectors, including maritime transport, have to contribute to the fight against climate change. let me stress that it is important for the european union to reach global solutions to marine emissions. this is why this regulation is important, because it sends an unmistakable signal of what we want in the context of the next session of the international maritime organisation, which will be held in london next may, and also in the context of the paris climate change conference at the end of the year. the establishment of a system of monitoring, reporting and verification of data at regional level in the european union, in addition to the direct positive effects, is also a useful experience and provides a technical insight for international negotiations. when discussing these issues at global level, our experience will help to identify solutions that have already been implemented. moreover, as we remain committed to moving as quickly as possible globally to tackle greenhouse gas emissions from ships, this regulation ensures that, once there is agreement on a legal framework for a future global measure, we can adapt our monitoring, reporting and verification system. some members have asked what the state of play was in the negotiations in the international maritime organization. the negotiations at the international maritime organization to set up a global monitoring, reporting and verification system are progressing slowly, but i believe they are going in the right direction. the community legislation we have put on the table has been a fundamental input into the negotiating process. the panamanian presidency is currently optimistic about this process, but at the moment, given the state of the negotiations, it seems difficult, if not impossible, for us to conclude these negotiations successfully before paris, because there are countries, such as china or india, which are taking positions that are not easy in the search for such a global agreement. the commission will therefore make every effort to conclude a satisfactory agreement as soon as possible. (the president interrupted the speaker to call for order)
i would like to thank my colleagues and commissioner arias cañete for their speeches on this important subject. ladies and gentlemen, i hope you will listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, although this regulation imposes new obligations on ship owners, such as monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions and other data relating to distance travelled and cargo carried, the truth is that this regulation will safeguard ways of complying with these obligations without this representing an additional administrative burden, and this without wanting to contradict my colleague mr nistelrooij, since pre-existing documentation on board can be used. for the same purpose, this regulation will apply only to ships of more than 5000 gross tonnage, which represent only 55% of all ships but account for around 90% of co2 emissions. in addition, this document will not ignore the work that is going on at the level of the international maritime organisation. it remains desirable that a global agreement be reached quickly and if that happens, as i hope, the commission will have to conduct a review of the adaptation of the legislation if this is warranted. i believe that this regulation will contribute to a more modern and environmentally friendly shipping sector. this is a small step, no doubt, but at the same time an essential step so that in the future we can impose concrete targets for decarbonisation and reduction of air pollution by this sector, hoping that such an agreement can be reached at global level. it is true that i was unable to include some of the issues i wanted in the negotiations for this document, such as a more ambitious approach to greenhouse gases in general, but the truth is that in order to achieve the ultimate objective, the production of a consensus document that would appeal to all political groups with different environmental sensitivities, we had to accept compromise agreements. i hope, commissioner, that you will be able to make this appeal to the international maritime organisation, as in all other forums. it was not easy, with times of great negotiating tension between parliament and the council, but in the end common sense and the common interest prevailed in obtaining a balanced final document that would please everyone, and that is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are going to vote on today. thank you, commissioner, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interest in this subject and i hope that i can count on your vote in favour.
‒ fishing is one of the occupational sectors with the highest accident rates, with very serious consequences for the lives of fishermen and their families. an estimated 24,000 lives are taken each year in the course of the activity. the international convention on standards of training, certification and room service for seafarers on fishing vessels of the international maritime organisation aims precisely to reduce as far as possible the occurrence of these threats to the safety of workers' lives by guaranteeing to the personnel on board a set of minimum requirements and qualifications for the exercise of the sector. i support the report by mrs sofia ribeiro and i consider it essential that all the member states ratify this convention. this decision should now encourage the member states to ratify the convention as soon as possible.
‒ the proposal aims to ensure that on-board personnel have the necessary qualifications to reduce threats to the safety of persons or property at sea or to the marine environment during operations on board fishing vessels. the convention requires that personnel have a minimum level of knowledge in specific subjects and have been on board a ship for a minimum period of time. fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate, with an estimated 24 000 lives lost each year in the course of fishing. i would like to highlight the excellent work done by my colleague, mrs sofia ribeiro.
‒ the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, certification and rooms service of seafarers on fishing vessels was adopted on 7 july 1995 at an international conference attended by 74 governments, 22 of which are currently members of the european union. the purpose of the convention is to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels have professional qualifications attested by official certification and that their fitness for work is attested by medical services. these measures are aimed at improving safety conditions for this work and minimising threats to the marine environment. for countries that are signatories to the convention, these provisions are binding only for ships with a length of at least 24 metres and a propulsion power of 750 kw. this recommendation agrees that the council may authorise member states to sign the convention if they so wish, which we consider to be a positive development. we voted yes.
‒ fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate, with an estimated 24 000 lives lost each year in the course of fishing. the stcw-f convention contains only mandatory provisions for fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more and of 750 kw power or more, and is limited to encouraging signatory countries to apply training standards to seamen of vessels of the same length but of lower power, and does not specify mandatory minimum knowledge for fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length. i believe that it is appropriate to extend the scope of the stcw-f convention or at least to adopt regulatory provisions applicable to vessels of less than 24 metres at union level. hence my vote.
in writing. ‒ the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and room service for seafarers on fishing vessels (stcw-f convention) was adopted by the international maritime organisation on 7 july 1995 in london. the convention aims to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels have the necessary qualifications (as attested by an official certificate) and the necessary fitness for work (as attested by a medical certificate) in order to minimise potential threats to the safety of human life, property at sea or the marine environment during operations on board fishing vessels. the union cannot ratify the stcw-f convention, only member states can do so. however, in accordance with the aetr case-law of the court of justice of the eu, member states cannot ratify the stcw-f convention without the authorisation of the union, as the provisions on the recognition of regulated professions exercised by union citizens on board fishing vessels affect the exercise of the union's exclusive competence in this area. the purpose of this decision is to authorise member states to ratify the stcw-f convention in accordance with the union's exclusive competences. i voted in favour.
‒ this is a document according to which member states are authorised to ratify the international convention on standards for seafarers on fishing vessels. the aim is to create a level playing field in the fisheries sector by encouraging vocational training, which will certainly contribute greatly to reducing casualties, as this is the occupation with the highest rate of accidents, with an estimated loss of 24 000 lives per year. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ i believe that the recommendations on vocational training and safety at work in the framework of the stcw-f convention (international maritime organisation convention on standards of training, certification and room service for seafarers on fishing vessels) are beneficial to all member states. these are standards which should also be required of all vessels operating in european union waters. i therefore vote in favour, since i believe that training is a basis for promoting equal employment and safety for fishermen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed report because it gives member states the possibility of becoming party to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and room service for seafarers on fishing vessels. all the efforts made to increase the responsibilities and training opportunities of seafarers are positive and this effort must extend to the remotest points of the european territory. as a native of the azores, i consider it essential that training centres be set up in the azores, especially when they are in the right place to enable extensive, intensive and sustainable use of the sea. in the azores, the sea represents about a million square kilometres and the land about 2300. it is clear that the future of these islands requires specialised and applied knowledge of the maritime domain.
in writing. – the international convention on standards of training, certification and watch-keeping for fishing vessel personnel of the international maritime organisation (hereinafter called the stcw-f convention), was adopted on 7 july 1995 at the international conference held in london from 26 june to 7 july 1995, with the participation of 74 governments and amongst them 22 current european union member states. professional activities related to the stcw-f convention are regulated in most of the member states. in accordance with the aetr case law of the court of justice on external competence, the member states are not allowed to ratify the stcw-f convention without european union authorisation as the provisions concerning the recognition of regulated professions pursed by eu nationals on board fishing vessels affect the exercise of the european union's exclusive competence in this area. as regards those member states that have already ratified the convention before the entry into force of the proposed decision, they are required to deposit with the imo secretary-general a statement whereby they acknowledge that eu law shall prevail in case of conflict in relations between member states.
‒ the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, certification and rooms service of seafarers on fishing vessels was adopted on 7 july 1995 at an international conference attended by 74 governments, 22 of which are now members of the eu. the purpose of the convention is to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels have professional qualifications attested by official certification and that their fitness for work is attested by medical services. these measures are aimed at improving safety conditions for this work and minimising threats to the marine environment. for countries that are signatories to the convention, these provisions are binding only for ships with a length of at least 24 metres and a propulsion power of 750 kw. this recommendation agrees with the possibility that the council may authorize the member states to sign the said convention, if they so wish, which we think is a positive thing. we voted yes.
‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for a revision of the multiannual financial framework in the event of delays in the adoption of rules or programmes under shared management, in order to carry over unused appropriations in 2014 to subsequent years, beyond the corresponding expenditure ceilings, which amounted to over eur 21 billion last year. i think that the practice should be that appropriations not used in one year should be carried over to the next year in order to contribute to job creation and growth, which would ensure that the commitments made in the mff are respected.
‒ the revision of the mff and the adoption of this op no 2 is a necessary condition for the adoption in 2015 of the operational programmes which were not revised and for which the 2014 allocation was not used. the corresponding commitments should therefore be rescheduled for subsequent years. all 28 member states are covered by this reprogramming exercise. the rapid adoption of the revision of the mff and of this por no 2 would avoid further delays in the adoption of operational programmes and ensure the smooth implementation of programmes supporting growth and employment. with the proposed amendment to the council mff regulation, unused 2014 appropriations will be carried over to subsequent years by means of a revision of the ceilings for commitments under the various headings. on the basis of this adjustment of the ceiling, this op presents the necessary requests for commitment appropriations in relation to the 2015 budget. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european commission has presented draft amending budget no 2/2015 which aims to transfer unspent structural funds and common agricultural policy funds from 2014 to 2015. this transfer of funds is due to the delay in the approval of the partnership agreements which are concluded between the european commission and the 28 member states. i support this report and i advocate that the appropriations not used in the 2014 financial year should be fully carried over to subsequent years in order to contribute to job creation and economic growth. i would also like to stress that the decision to transfer unused appropriations from 2014 to 2015 will have to involve a flexible approach by the commission in order to address any difficulties resulting from an irregular financial profile due to the lack of payment commitments.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2015 concerns the proposal for a council regulation amending the multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation to allow the transfer of unused appropriations in 2014 which could not be committed in 2014 due to delays in the adoption of rules or programmes under shared management. these appropriations for commitments for programmes under shared management were cancelled in the amount of eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices. this resolution approves draft amending budget no 2/2015 which provides for the transfer of most of these appropriations to the 2015 budget, while lower amounts will be integrated into the draft budgets for the financial years 2016 and 2017. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the transfer of these appropriations will contribute to job creation and growth and will speed up the implementation and implementation of cohesion policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the fifg regulation as it is an ordinary procedure at the beginning of each period. in this case, it provides for unused transfers in 2014 to be carried over to 2015 in order to contribute to job creation and growth. however, i am concerned about the average payment deadline for suppliers.
‒ the appropriations that could not be used in 2014 and that were not carried over to 2015 are very significant, amounting to over eur 21 million, equivalent to 15% of the 2014 budget. this draft amending budget provides for the bulk of the appropriation to be allocated to the 2015 budget, which means an increase of eur 16 million in commitment appropriations for all the funds under shared-action. however, this budget also proposes an increase of eur 2.5 million for the instrument for pre-accession assistance. as this is an instrument aimed at implementing economic and social policies to bring the candidate countries into line with eu rules, policies and practices, among the policies and measures financed by this instrument are those which have contributed and continue to contribute today to the destruction of the productive sectors of countries like portugal, such as the progressive alignment with the rules of the internal market, the stability pact and the europe 2020 strategy, whose objectives are to continue to privatize even more companies, extending this process also to public services, and to liberalize sectors of the economy that are fundamental to the lives of workers and peoples.
in writing. the adoption of the regulation on type-approval requirements for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system is the result of a long-term work by the european parliament on the reduction of road accidents. it's never too late to remember that the ecall system saves lives! in a europe where thousands of families are suffering from the tragedy of road accidents, the introduction of the ecall system with direct connection to the european emergency number 112 is a milestone in road safety. by automatically establishing a direct link to the european emergency number 112 in the event of a car accident, and by transmitting a minimum set of data on the accident, vehicle and passengers, ecall will allow for faster, more efficient and less costly assistance. i would remind you that ecall is free, secure, works in all member states and complies with strict data protection rules. i therefore welcome the adoption of this important regulation, to which i contributed as the epp's shadow rapporteur.
‒ ecall is an emergency system for road safety which, in the event of a car accident, automatically makes a direct call to the european emergency service 112 (via sensors installed in the vehicle to public safety points of service), at the same time sending a set of data on the location of the vehicle. the reduction of road fatalities in europe is the main objective of this measure, and i agree with it. the introduction of points in the proposal on privacy and data protection, such as the continuous and automatic removal of data or the permission to retain the last three locations of the vehicle, improved the initial proposal. i would like to emphasize the valuable and excellent work done on this subject by my colleague, mr carlos coelho.
in writing. the implementation of the ecall system implies the installation in all vehicles in the european union of a minimum of functionalities necessary for the location of the car accident, as well as the interoperability of the system in the various member states. the implementation of this system may conflict with some individual rights and freedoms. we therefore consider that the installation of such equipment should be left to the users' choice. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. it is for the member states to create conditions for the reduction of road accidents, including, inter alia, the construction of safe roads, the improvement of traffic conditions and the safety of existing roads, the promotion, in conjunction with the competent authorities, of measures to control and prevent motor traffic, and the provision of means and equipment to the competent authorities for the rapid assistance of victims. these are indispensable measures for the prevention and relief of motor vehicle accidents. the existence of a system such as ecall cannot diminish its importance.
in writing. ‒ new models of light and commercial vehicles sold in the eu will have to be equipped with ecall from 31 march 2018. the introduction of this system on board vehicles based on the 112 number is intended to reduce fatalities on european roads and to ensure better assistance to victims of road accidents. ecall is an emergency system in the field of road safety which, in the event of a motor vehicle accident, automatically makes a direct call to the european emergency service 112 (via public safety hotlines) via sensors installed in the vehicle, while sending a set of data on the location of the vehicle. this is a very important mechanism which will make it possible in the future to reduce the number of accidents on european roads. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european council recently approved the requirement for cars to have an automatic system for calling medical assistance services in the event of an accident. i support this report which will improve the safety of passengers and speed up the speed of medical services in the event of an accident. it should be noted that all cars should have this system in place as soon as possible, helping to reduce the number of fatalities still on european roads.
in writing. - the aim of this resolution is to equip all union vehicles with the minimum functionalities needed to ensure that emergency calls are handled properly by the emergency services. action at union level appears necessary to ensure interoperability and continuity of the service across europe. the proposed regulation is part of a set of union legal acts with a view to ensuring the secondment of the ecall service, based on the number 112, by 1 october 2015. the proposal requires that new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles be built in such a way as to ensure that an emergency call (ecall) to 112 is triggered automatically. in addition, rules are laid down for respect for privacy and data protection. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the implementation of the ecall in-vehicle system. i believe that the mandatory implementation of the ecall system could reduce the response time of rescue teams and thus reduce road fatalities. however, i will be attentive to the issue of the protection of citizens' personal data.
‒ i fully support the implementation of the ecall system in european vehicles, as a system that increases safety on our roads is undoubtedly very important and timely. often, help does not reach the scene of an accident as quickly as it should because of delays in the transmission of information. the ecall system reduces this delay considerably by contacting the emergency services immediately after the accident. this electronic system will be available to all european citizens, thus ensuring that we are all equally protected. at the same time, ecall respects the protection of the privacy of europeans by not using their data in a way that puts that privacy at risk. i am sure that this european technology will have a positive impact on the safety of our roads and i would like to see the system implemented within the framework envisaged. i therefore support the ecall system in european vehicles.
‒ the implementation of the ecall system implies the installation in all vehicles in the european union of a minimum of functionalities necessary for the location of the car accident, as well as the interoperability of the system in the various member states (eu-wide ecall). it is clear from the outset that the implementation of the installation of this system, although the purpose is laudable, clearly calls into question the freedom of choice of the citizens. the intensity of installation of georeferencing equipment should be left to the sole discretion and choice of users. we therefore vote against.
in writing. the implementation of the ecall system implies the installation in all vehicles in the european union of a minimum of functionalities necessary for the location of the car accident, as well as the interoperability of the system in the various member states. the implementation of the installation of this system, although with a laudable purpose, clearly calls into question the freedom of choice of citizens, which is even more serious when the principle of privacy of data held by the multinational concession holders is at stake. the intention to install such equipment should be left to the users to choose. we therefore voted in favour of the amendment which suggests that manufacturers should ensure that ecall users can easily manually deactivate the on-board system in their vehicles. it is for the member states to create conditions which, inter alia, include the construction of new roads, the improvement of traffic conditions and the safety of existing roads, the promotion, in conjunction with the competent authorities, of measures to control and prevent motor vehicle traffic, and the provision of facilities and equipment to the competent authorities for the rapid assistance of victims. these are indispensable measures for the prevention and relief of motor vehicle accidents, rather than a huge public investment for the implementation of a 'service' to be granted to private individuals.
‒ the directive encourages the switch from traditional biofuels to second generation biofuels, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the increasing use of agricultural land for biofuel production. the new biofuels rules stipulate that the share of energy from 'classic' or first generation biofuels should not exceed 7% of the final energy consumption in transport in the member states in 2020. for 'advanced' or second generation biofuels, a non-binding target is set with a reference value of 0,5 percentage points in energy content of the share of energy from renewable sources in all forms of transport in 2020.
in writing. the commission put forward a legislative proposal in 2012 with the aim of minimising greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, mainly from road transport. in 2009, as part of the 2020 climate and energy strategy, a dual target was set by 2020: 10% share of renewable energy (mainly biofuels) in the transport sector, introduced by the renewable energy directive, and a 6% reduction in the ghg intensity of fuels used in road and non-road transport, introduced by a revision of the fuel quality directive. this report takes up a large part of the concerns and demands already raised by parliament. the effects of a shift in the use of agricultural land towards higher carbon productions is a well-founded concern in the proposed amendments. this change may also raise questions of biodiversity and food sovereignty. the rapporteur proposes setting targets for advanced biofuels to encourage a shift towards these fuels, which are less dependent on agricultural production and have a much greater capacity to reduce ghg emissions. it also proposes that other renewable energy sources should be taken into account. the fact is that in these texts little is said about other possibilities than biofuels.
‒ the aim of the commission proposal, which was presented in october 2012, is to start the transition to a biofuels policy that can substantially minimise greenhouse gas emissions, also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land use change (iluc). by 2020, the eu will have to work hard to achieve the levels agreed in this document. i hope that the adoption of this report will give a major boost to our efforts to increase the use of renewable energy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, by 2020, each member state should ensure that the share of energy from renewable energy sources in all modes of transport represents at least 10% of the final consumption of energy in transport in its member state. i support this report because i believe that we must increasingly rely on sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy, and renewable energy sources are a good example of the kind of sustainability that is desired. however, i would like to stress the importance of other measures to reduce energy consumption (rationalization of transport modes) and of increasing research and development into new energy sources.
in writing. ‒ i support the harmonisation of eu directives and legislation in order to start a biofuels policy that can minimise greenhouse gas emissions. investment in the environment in the european union is urgently needed in the short and long term in pursuing a greener europe and achieving the 2020 targets.
‒ the effects of a shift in the use of agricultural land towards higher carbon crops for biofuel production, including its own contribution to ghg production, which may occur when existing agricultural production is shifted to other previously uncultivated land, and a very highlighted concern in the proposed amendments. the rapporteur proposes setting targets for advanced biofuels to encourage a shift towards these fuels, which are less dependent on agricultural production and have a much greater capacity to reduce ghg emissions. it also proposes that other renewable energy sources be taken into account and that electric vehicles be promoted. although the titles of the communication, the directives and this report refer to the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the fact is that these texts make little mention of other scenarios than biofuels, suggesting that under the pretext of noble objectives, such as the reduction of factors that cause climate change, such as ghgs, another potentially very lucrative business is promoted, which could mean the loss of agricultural production to feed the people, in order to have agricultural production for the production of raw material for biofuels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposals contained in the torvalds recommendation because i considered them to be balanced in the right way in that they set an adjusted limit for the introduction of conventional biofuels. they introduce a target for next-generation biofuels, which should be encouraged, in particular in the framework of the research and innovation policy set out in horizon 2020 and the energy union principles. they reinforce the need to consider the assessment of land use change in the impact assessment of biofuel use. they stress the importance of restricting competition between the biofuel production and food chains. they call on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for the promotion and use of renewable energy in transport for the period after 2020. in addition to the necessary incentives for the most advanced technologies, in particular for new generation biofuels that minimise competition with other rows and the emission of greenhouse gases, i believe that the conditions are finally in place to pursue the ambitious objective of developing electric mobility.
‒ the commission presented a legislative proposal in october 2012 with the aim of initiating a transition to a biofuel policy that can significantly minimise greenhouse gas emissions, especially in road transport. in 2009, as part of the 2020 climate and energy strategy, a dual target was set by 2020: 10% share of renewable energy (mainly biofuels) in the transport sector, introduced by the renewable energy directive, and a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road and non-road transport, introduced by a revision of the fuel quality directive. although the titles of the communication, the directives and this report refer to the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the fact is that in these texts little is said about other scenarios than biofuels, suggesting that under the pretext of noble objectives such as the reduction of factors that cause climate change, such as ghgs, another potentially very lucrative business is promoted, which could mean the loss of agricultural production to feed the people, in order to have agricultural production for the production of raw material for biofuels.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that almost 100 billion plastic bags are consumed annually in the eu, a figure that is expected to rise to 111 billion by 2020 if no reduction measures are taken by then. because of their low recycling value, plastic bags are now a serious environmental problem, since they constitute, together with bottles, the majority of the plastic waste that accumulates in european seas and can last for hundreds of years, mainly in the form of fragments. i support the auken report because i believe that there is an urgent need to put an end to this scourge and that the eu should set an example in this field. i am pleased that, unlike the first reading text adopted by this house in april last year, which did not call for any action at european level, suggesting simply that each member state should unilaterally solve the plastic bag issue (without imposing any targets on them), the text adopted today sets out an alternative obligation to limit the annual consumption of plastic bags per person by 2019 or to end free use of plastic bags, as has for example been recently implemented in my country.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of waste generation should be amended to include the following elements:
‒ nearly 100 billion plastic bags are consumed in the eu every year, a figure that is expected to rise to 111 billion by 2020 if no action is taken to reduce them by then. on average, each european uses 198 plastic bags in the course of a year. in the next five minutes, another million plastic bags will have been consumed in the eu. 89% are used once before they become waste. the directive requires member states to opt for at least one of the following two options: to take measures to ensure that the level of annual consumption does not exceed on average 90 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person by the end of 2019 and 40 by 2025, or to ensure that by the end of 2018 no such plastic carrier bags are provided free of charge. in the eu, plastic bags are considered to be packaging according to the packaging and packaging waste directive 1994. the new legislation amends that directive to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags, i.e. those with a thickness of less than 50 micrometres, or 0.05 millimetres.
in writing. the report recommends accepting the council's position after negotiations with parliament. the need to reduce the use of plastic bags - excessive and the result of poor economic choices - is evident. this can be achieved by campaigns to raise awareness and environmental awareness, by encouraging the repackaging or re-transport of goods marketed by the various sectors and by calling on member states to promote the use of alternatives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this report advocates the application of the polluter-pays principle, understood here as the reservation of the 'right to pollute' to those who can pay for it - a view which we do not support. pollution is no less harmful if someone pays more or less. further research and development of solutions to avoid the harm associated with plastic bags by replacing them in their various uses should be pursued. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the community, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat the pollution of the environment.
‒ i agree to the adoption of these measures. plastic bags are among the most polluting items and their indiscriminate use only contributes to the deterioration of the environment. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union wants member states to take measures to ensure that the level of annual consumption of plastic bags does not exceed, on average, 90 units per person by the end of 2019 and 10 units per person by 2025. alternatively, by 2018, they may prohibit the free distribution of plastic bags or adopt measures having the same objective. i am in favour of this report, which i regard as a measure for environmental protection and of great importance for the rational use of plastic bags throughout the european union. i would like to stress that i fully agree with president juncker when he said that the european union should focus on the major strategic activities where it will make a difference and leave the small legislative provisions to the member states.
‒ reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is relevant as it limits the negative impacts on the environment. the proposal aims to reduce the consumption of plastic bags with a thickness of less than 0.05 mm in the european union. however, it is a proposal which should be thought through during its implementation so that there is a gradual transition to civil society.
‒ the consumption and disposal of lightweight plastic bags is a serious environmental problem, and one that according to eu surveys is at the top of the list of environmental concerns of europeans. i think this challenge is a good example of the benefits of having coordination and legislation at european level. i fully support the objectives of this legislation, namely to limit the impacts of waste production on the environment and to prevent and reduce waste production. at the same time, i think it is important that the potential negative socioeconomic effects of this legislation are minimised. i believe that the text agreed between the european parliament and the council is in line with these objectives, and also promotes the most efficient way of achieving them. finally, we have binding measures in the eu to slow down the production of waste. i am against the amendment put to the vote because i believe that the common text has been reached which best meets the need to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags in the european area.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of plastic bags, which is a requirement for the member states to ensure that the level of annual consumption of plastic bags does not exceed 90 bags per person on average by 2019 and 40 bags per person by 2025, and to make it mandatory for member states by the end of 2018 by requiring that no free lightweight plastic bags are made available at points of sale. the council also proposes an annual compulsory declaration of the consumption of plastic bags by the member states, in order to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken, the obligation to identify biodegradable and compostable bags. as regards the designation of 'degradable oxo-waste' proposed mainly by the producers of plastic bags, the council proposes to carry out further studies of the environmental impact of these products.
‒ this report recommends accepting the council's position after negotiations with parliament. this directive is nothing more than the direct application of the polluter-pays principle, a view which we do not share - and the council's position makes it worse, since instead of the obligation to adopt measures to ensure that the level of annual consumption of plastic bags does not exceed on average 90 bags/person by 2019 and 40 bags/person by 2025, it intends to impose it as mandatory for member states by the end of 2018, requiring that no free lightweight plastic bags are made available at points of sale. rather, research and development of solutions that avoid the harm associated with plastic bags by replacing them in their various uses should be encouraged, and environmental awareness and awareness campaigns should be promoted and supported by encouraging the change of packaging or means of transport of goods traded by the various sectors.
‒ the maritime transport sector plays a crucial role in the european economy, accounting for a large part of international freight transport between the eu and the rest of the world, and intra-community freight transport. regulation of emissions from shipping has been identified as a need in the context of air quality and climate policy-making both at european and intercontinental level. i support the report by mr josé inácio faria because it establishes a system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mcv) of greenhouse gas emissions from the maritime sector at european union level, which will make it possible to develop policies to reduce emissions associated with the sector in line with the general policies on climate, air pollution and the protection of human health.
‒ international shipping is the only means of transport that remains outside the eu's greenhouse gas reduction commitment. emissions from this sector currently account for 4% of eu-wide emissions. this regulation introduces a european-wide system for the monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv system) of co2 emissions from maritime transport. the aim is to increase transparency on ship emissions and create an incentive to reduce them. from 1 january 2018, ship-owners will have to monitor and report co2 emissions from ships of more than 5000 gross tonnage, which represent around 55% of ships calling at eu ports and around 90% of associated emissions. the new rules apply to co2 emissions from voyages to, from and between european ports. in order to minimise the administrative burden on shipowners and operators, the reporting and publication of information should be done on an annual basis.
‒ in april 2014, parliament adopted at first reading the proposal for the introduction of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions from maritime transport. after all the interinstitutional discussions between parliament and the council, this report focuses on the council's position at first reading. the council's position is in line with the objectives discussed and negotiated with parliament on the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the white paper on transport, which calls for policies to this end, given the dependence of this sector on the use of fossil fuels and the fact that its emissions also contribute to air pollution and climate change. we welcome a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information not only on the amount of greenhouse gases (ghgs) emitted by this sector but also on the collection of concrete data which will allow the development of concrete policies to deal with the issue of ghg emissions, which is why we voted in favour. in the debate in plenary, we advanced some concerns and ideas to be taken into account in the future.
‒ this regulation requires owners of ships entering and leaving eu ports to monitor and report carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from january 2018. the new rules apply to ships of more than 5000 gross tonnage, regardless of flag state, and represent a first step towards reducing co2 emissions from shipping. the new regulation introduces a european-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv system) co2 emissions from shipping. the aim is to increase transparency on ship emissions and create an incentive to reduce them. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i am in favour of this agreement already reached by the european institutions. however, i would point out that it did not take into account the outermost regions of the union, including the island of madeira, which have maritime transport as their gateway. i do not disagree with the real need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from shipping. however, i believe that the same approach should be taken within the framework of the international maritime organisation. the regional application of this regulation will thus be limited. as we know, over 70% of world trade is carried by sea. this cvm system is complex for both the sector and the authorities and much of the data to be reported is irrelevant to the objective in question. the pollution must be tackled by increasing the use of alternative fuels such as lng. we must therefore stimulate the market for research, development, production, implementation and maintenance of new technologies and adapt the sector gradually and proportionately.
‒ the establishment of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from shipping is important as we move towards green and sustainable goals. in the present day, ecological and environmentally friendly behaviour should be encouraged and stimulated, and as such this system is advantageous in the context of sustainable ecology. it will certainly be an advantage to have greater control over carbon dioxide emissions from shipping.
‒ carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels are the main cause of so-called 'greenhouse gases' and thus intensify global climate change and ocean acidification. all sources of emissions must be reduced as a matter of urgency. in the case of maritime transport in particular, it is essential to reduce the use of heavy fuels and to switch to alternative fuels such as liquefied natural gas or other environmentally sound sources. this transformation will have to be accompanied by the use of intermediate refuelling points and the azores, located in the middle of the atlantic at a transit point between the panama canal and europe, are ready to respond positively to this need through their ocean port infrastructure in praia da vitória. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal. i hope that this initiative will go further in bringing about the necessary change in european energy options in the maritime transport sector.
‒ the council's position is in line with the discussions and negotiations with parliament on the eu's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the transport white paper which requires policies to be implemented in this regard. this sector is dependent on the use of fossil fuels and its emissions also contribute to air pollution and climate change. we welcome a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information not only on the amount of ghg emitted by this sector but also on the collection of concrete data which will allow the development of concrete policies to deal with the issue of ghg emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport because, although it is not yet fully satisfactory, it has the merit of pointing to a more efficient and ethical use of biofuels, allowing a european regulatory framework, in the absence of international regulation, on the monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and air pollutants from the maritime sector, in the wider context of the fight against climate change.
‒ in april 2014, parliament adopted at first reading the proposal for the introduction of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions from maritime transport. after all the interinstitutional discussions between parliament and the council, this report focuses on the council's position at first reading. the council's position is in line with the objectives discussed and negotiated with parliament on the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and with the white paper on transport, which calls for policies to this end, given the dependence of this sector on the use of fossil fuels and the fact that its emissions also contribute to air pollution and climate change. we welcome a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information not only on the amount of greenhouse gases (ghgs) emitted by this sector but also on the collection of concrete data which will allow the development of concrete policies to deal with the issue of ghg emissions, which is why we voted in favour.
‒ i support the validation of this regulation, which requires the revision and adaptation of the current basic legal framework for european statistics, taking into account the needs and challenges created for european statistics in the face of recent developments in the global economy. the main objective is to strengthen governance in the european statistical system, to safeguard its high credibility and to respond adequately to the data needs resulting from the enhanced coordination of economic policy in the european union.
‒ reliable and accurate european statistics play two vital roles as a public good: they are the basis for decision-making by policy-makers and serve as a barometer for analysing the state of the economy and society, providing assurance to governments and financial markets. however, events in recent years have shaken public and market confidence. it is important and necessary that we have confidence in statistics. eurostat must have the means to produce valid and reliable information. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ regulation (ec) no 223/2009 lays down a regulatory framework for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics, including general provisions on the protection of and access to confidential data. in addition to simplifying and stabilising the budget planning of statistical activities, the proposal aligns the programming period of the european statistical programme with the multiannual financial framework of the union. finally, the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 223/2009 takes into account the necessary adaptations to the treaty of lisbon as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission. the decision involved the involvement and participation of the national statistical institutes.
in writing. ‒ this vote was of particular importance as it was the first multiannual plan in the context of the common fisheries policy (cfp) after its restructuring. the vote is therefore an opportunity to ensure parliament's role in implementing the cfp reform and in reducing overfishing of species above their minimum recovery threshold.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the new wording also gives greater attention to the different roles of the species covered by this diploma and at the same time provides for a decision on the priority of the species to be caught.
‒ this report calls for changes to what will be the first multiannual regional plan produced under the reformed common fisheries policy and which will, to a certain extent, condition those that follow. the plan allows for a regional approach from the member states' point of view, but always under the auspices of the commission and the council, which are ultimately responsible for defining the basic measures for the sector. in line with the cfp's philosophy and core objectives, it adopts its restrictive and reductive approach, albeit in line with the available scientific knowledge, with measures to limit or even stop catches. it neglects the involvement of the sector and the different actors as privileged agents and stakeholders in the management of the resources on which they depend. it also ignores the economic aspect of the implementation of measures to make fisheries more valuable, as a contribution to management by reducing fishing effort. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
‒ the multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks was published by the european commission in october 2014. the aim of the proposal is to establish a framework for the management of multiple species of the baltic sea cod, herring and sprat stocks, where these three species are the main target of fishing. cod, herring and sprat account for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic sea in recent years. the baltic sea is a nearly enclosed body of water in which these three species are omnipresent and interact continuously. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that the rules allow for the interactions between the species covered to be recognised, in particular the influence of cod on herring and sprat stocks and vice versa. the plan shall provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the livelihoods of fishermen. at the same time, it shall ensure that management is based on the latest scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, interactions between species and other aspects related to ecosystems and fisheries. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the main objective of this report initiated by the committee on fisheries is to establish a multi-species fishing plan which takes into account the existing dynamics of cod, herring and sprat stocks and the species caught as by-catch in the fisheries of these stocks, namely sole, sprat, rock sole and baltic hake. i support the report in question, arguing that the multiannual plan should contribute to rebuilding, achieving and maintaining the populations of the species concerned at acceptable levels of sustainability, and to minimizing as far as possible the impact on other species such as seabirds and the marine environment in general. i also believe that the european commission should take account of the advice of the advisory councils when it comes to adopting technical measures to accompany the multiannual plan.
‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks is particularly relevant as it lays down specific tabling on the subject in question. it is important to legislate in such a way as to show that maritime policy is not forgotten or ignored. the regulation sets out specific measures that will contribute to the balance of the ecosystem and the species concerned.
‒ the common fisheries policy establishes a set of rules that apply to the management of european fishing fleets and the conservation of fisheries resources. to this extent, and since stocks of fishery resources are finite and others are overexploited, measures are needed to ensure the sustainability of the resources and of the fishing industry itself. this is the aim of this plan: to establish an urgent framework for the management of multiple baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat, which account for more than 94% of catches in the baltic sea in recent years. this multi-species management approach is noticeably more effective than single-species management and takes into account inter-species interactions. i therefore agree with this plan and believe that it should provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks, based on responsible and forward-looking management, based on up-to-date scientific advice.
‒ i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and on the speed with which he has done it. the european union committed itself in 2002 to maintain and restore fisheries resources to levels that can produce a maximum sustainable yield, on an urgent basis then and if possible no later than 2015. the first multiannual plan is now voted on and it is our duty to make this precedent precise and appropriate. many fish stocks need to rebuild their biomass. the fishing rate must therefore be set at a level of maximum sustainable catch mortality that ensures that current economic income does not undermine its stability for the future. to ensure that the msy is resilient, a precautionary approach should be used by keeping catches at levels 10-20% below the maximum calculated fishing mortality rate. setting a target of 80% of the expected fishing mortality to maintain maximum sustainable yield will ensure that the promise made in 2002 is delivered further. because this report safeguards these positions, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 of the european parliament and of the council lays down the rules of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in line with the union's international obligations. the multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks was published by the european commission in october 2014. the aim of the proposal is to establish a framework for the management of multiple species of the baltic sea cod, herring and sprat stocks, where fishing is focused on these three species. the commission proposal points to a need for a multi-species management plan for the baltic sea. the multi-species management approach is much more effective than the single-species management approach. the plan shall provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the livelihoods of fishermen. at the same time, it shall ensure that management is based on the latest scientific advice on the status of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the [...].
‒ the proposal in the title clarifies the rules applicable to the landing obligation, giving fishermen a two-year adaptation period. what is proposed is that fishermen should be obliged to land all unintended catches which are not marketable, either because of the absence of a quota or because they are smaller than the minimum conservation reference size, something which is prevented by several european regulations currently in force. the text states that discards are a considerable waste and compromise the sustainable exploitation of marine organisms and ecosystems and that since the general compliance by operators with the landing obligation is essential for it to have the expected effects, the non-compliance with the landing obligation should be categorised as a serious infringement, but given two years to adapt to the new rule.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products should be considered as a step in the right direction. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the fishing opportunities and by extending the period of validity of the fishing opportunities and the period of validity of the fishing opportunities. the other fisheries should be subject to further regulation, accompanied by a new framework of technical measures. the commission should present a proposal to this effect in the coming months. the return of fish to the sea, with no chance of survival, is an unsustainable practice and one which is justly repulsive. this practice has many causes, ranging from the lack of commercial value of fish that would be in good condition to be consumed to inadequate management of resources. these causes should be assessed in each case and the solutions found to comply with the landing obligation should take them into account. the implementation of the cfp provisions entails completely different requirements, for example in the case of the multi-specific and predominantly artisanal fisheries prevailing in countries such as portugal, as opposed to the monospecific and predominantly industrial fisheries of the north. overall, we do not think that the proposed regulation takes this fully into account.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is an urgent need to move towards a sustainable model of fishing compatible with the protection of marine resources and the marine environment. it cannot be ignored that most of the fish that are returned to the sea die.
‒ the report in question is the progressive elimination of discards from all european union fisheries on the high seas by introducing an obligation to land catches of species. i support this report, which has been the subject of intense debate in the committee on fisheries of the european parliament, and i stress that the amendment in question requires a two-year adaptation period before infringements of the landing obligation are considered serious. it should also be noted that the landing obligation is a fundamental change for fisheries and that the year 2015 will be a test for its implementation. it will then be necessary to analyse the process with a view to post-2015 implementation for the fisheries concerned.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
‒ in a sensitive area such as fisheries, we must take every care that the rules and legislation emanating from the european union do not conflict with each other. clarification should always be a priority.
in the case of the union's fishing fleet, the commission will assess the impact of the proposed measures on the fishing industry and the fisheries sector. the regulation also clarifies certain rules on the landing obligation and gives fishermen a two-year period (until 2017) to adapt. the commission has proposed a so-called 'omnibus' regulation to eliminate this contradiction and clarify the way in which the landing obligation is implemented. however, it is necessary, as the rapporteur states, to solve the pressing problem of implementing this landing obligation for fisheries in 2015, which will be the test year to assess the consequences of this measure in the future. a final word to mention the collateral effects that this measure may have on certain multi-species fisheries in portugal and which should therefore be subject to careful analysis and control by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i think it is very important to stress that this regulation will effectively mark the transition from the previous common fisheries policy, which was geared towards maximising catches, to the new common fisheries policy, which is geared towards environmental sustainability and the optimisation of yields. finally, the old rejections will be taken into account in the management of the springs, which i welcome from a scientific point of view. however, this new approach will have collateral implications which should merit attention. in the context of this, there are several multi-specific fisheries in portugal. in such cases, it is enough for a species to occur with its quota exhausted or its quota zero to close the whole fishery. the specific case of the black swordfish fishery, a century-old artisanal fishery in portugal, will be blocked by the impossibility of catching the zero-quota catshark by accident. a similar scenario could occur with the azores demersal fishery because of the limited quotas for the blue whiting. the consequences will have to be given careful attention by the executive body of the union. in conclusion, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. – one of the central objectives of the reform of the current common fisheries policy (cfp) is the progressive elimination of discards in all european union (eu) fisheries through the introduction of a landing obligation. this is designed to make better use of the available resources, and responds to public expectation to end the practice of throwing marketable fish back into the sea. high levels of discards are identified as an important driver of the lack of environmental sustainability of the cfp in the impact assessment carried out for the proposal for the basic regulation for the cfp. the changes made by the omnibus regulation should be strictly limited to implementation of the landing obligation, and only to the fisheries concerned as from 1 january 2015 (small pelagic fisheries, large pelagic fisheries, fisheries for industrial purposes, fisheries for baltic sea salmon). the legal alignment for the fisheries subject to the landing obligation after 2015 should be performed subsequently, and in conjunction with the new technical measures framework that the commission will bring forward in the coming months. the omnibus regulation should, as a result, only be concerned with the urgent issue of the implementation of the landing obligation for the fisheries concerned in 2015.
‒ the rapporteur has chosen, and we think it is appropriate, to restrict the provisions introduced by the omnibus regulation to what is strictly necessary in order to implement the landing obligation provided for in the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which was adopted when it was last amended. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the fishing opportunities and by extending the period of validity of the fishing opportunities and the period of validity of the fishing opportunities. the other fisheries should be subject to further regulation, accompanied by a new framework of technical measures. the commission should present a proposal to this effect in the coming months. the return of fish to the sea, with no chance of survival, is an unsustainable practice and one which is justly repulsive. the causes of this practice are very diverse, ranging from the lack of commercial value of fish that would be in good condition to be consumed to inadequate management of resources. these causes should be assessed in each case and the solutions found to comply with the landing obligation should take them into account.
‒ the european parliament thus makes possible the conclusion of the agreement allowing the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
‒ relations between the european union and the russian federation have been somewhat troubled in recent times. i believe that establishing a protocol of agreement and partnership, even with regard to the accession of another sovereign state (croatia) to the european union, could somehow avoid some future friction.
‒ i voted in favour of this draft recommendation on the conclusion of the protocol incorporating the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, and amending the agreement following the entry into force of the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013. in fact, by the act of accession, croatia is acceding to international agreements signed or concluded by the eu and its member states, by means of a protocol annexed to those agreements. this is just one more of them, referring to economic, trade and investment cooperation, with a separate procedure for matters falling within the competence of the european atomic energy community.
‒ the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, follows on from the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, which we have nothing against but for which the croatian people will have to pay a heavy price if the current eu policies are maintained.
‒ this report clearly demonstrates the importance of the bologna process over the last 15 years and its achievements, particularly in terms of quality of education, mobility and recognition of academic qualifications. i support the lybacka report because, in addition to acknowledging the achievements, it advocates the need for crucial developments and improvements to revitalise the bologna process, namely a more student- and outcome-oriented approach, strengthening the links between higher education and research by facilitating the dialogue between science and society, promoting the beneficial use of technological innovations in teaching and learning and focusing on better synchronisation of actions in support of the bologna process such as horizon 2020 and the erasmus+ programme.
in writing. ‒ one in three employers in the eu has problems finding employees with the right qualifications, and with the aim of reducing the skills mismatch in the eu (the gap between a person's professional qualifications and labour market requirements), the bologna reform has so far not been very successful. the problem of youth unemployment has not improved much since the crisis began in 2008, with some 5 million unemployed young people under 25 in the eu. the real objective of the bologna process is to support mobility and internationalisation and to ensure compatibility and comparability of standards and quality of different higher education systems. it is essential that countries implement the commonly agreed reforms, improve and update the evaluation of higher education institutions, increase scholarships and strengthen quality assurance, with a view to achieving a european higher education area that enhances its attractiveness as a benchmark of academic excellence worldwide.
in writing. the bologna process, with its visible consequences, has become a must in the approach to the situation of higher education systems in the various member states. this report recognizes some of the serious consequences of bologna. it points to the failure of the so-called 'student mobility objective' which has been put on the back burner, with mobility rates remaining low. what did not stand in the way was the divestment of the states in the sector and the significant increase in the costs of the frequency. the report proposes a regenerative bath for bologna. we obviously voted against it. the difficulty of access to higher education for those who are less economically able, the creation of an army of cheap labour and the loss of the perspective of integral training of the individual, which higher education institutions tended to confer, are among the consequences of bologna for which we have warned and warned. what is needed, as we advocated in the motion for a resolution, is cooperation between member states at the level of higher education, but this must be done by guaranteeing the right of everyone to free, quality public higher education.
‒ the bologna process entered into force in 2006 and is currently in force in 47 european countries. i support this report which is critical of the implementation of the bologna reform, as it has not yet been fully implemented and has not yet made a decisive contribution to facilitating the recruitment of persons from a member state other than that of their nationality. it should be noted that one in three employers in the eu have problems finding people with the right qualifications and that it is essential to reduce the gap between acquired skills and labour market requirements. i believe that it is necessary to facilitate the recognition of qualifications, to speed up the award of academic degrees and to contribute to the creation of a european labour market in which young people have effective job opportunities.
‒ this is a report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, which aims to be correct in order to promote mobility. this requires strengthening recognition procedures and improving the quality of services for students at host universities. it also aims to establish a financial support mechanism, ensure the transfer of grants and credits, promote the learning of foreign languages and encourage participation in european programmes such as erasmus+. for these reasons, and because it is crucial to revitalize the bologna process in some areas so that it can meet new challenges, i voted in favour of this document.
‒ the importance of the bologna process in the current economic situation should focus on the development of knowledge and innovation, as well as on the strengthening of citizenship through broad access to education and its continuous updating. i would remind you that education and research are one of the main pillars of our society when it comes to promoting skills development, growth and job creation. investing in education is key to effectively combating poverty, social inequalities and unemployment, including youth unemployment, and to fostering social inclusion. this is a vision that should be reflected in the review of the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of the juncker investment plan for europe. i also agree with the rapporteur when she points out the need for improvements in the implementation of bologna, in particular those relating to more student-centred learning; to the strengthening of collaboration between institutions; to the importance of social aspects; to public awareness of the bologna reforms; to new funding models; to the credit system; to the mobility of teachers and pupils and also to the creation of quality assurance systems.
‒ the bologna process gave the necessary impetus to the creation of a european higher education area (ehea), stimulating student mobility, providing quality assurance systems, recognition of diplomas and promoting a generic improvement of education systems across europe. however, as this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, shows, this 'process' needs a new impetus, namely in the adaptation of education systems to the new needs of the labour market and, as education for citizenship, in the updating and development of higher levels of knowledge - and that these objectives should be reflected in the review of the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of the european fund for strategic investments. priorities should also include improving the quality of higher education, increasing scholarships, mutual recognition and compatibility of academic degrees, strengthening national/cross-border cooperation on programmes/traineeships between universities and enterprises, focusing on teacher training/mobility and new funding opportunities. i also believe that, while i am in favour of deepening the eees, the member states should never fail to preserve pedagogical diversity, including linguistic diversity in their schools and at different levels of education.
‒ this report, while recognising some of the serious consequences of the bologna process, proposes to repair what is not repairable. even the failure to achieve the so-called 'student mobility target', which has been put on the back burner because mobility rates remain low, is acknowledged in the report itself. what is needed, as we have argued in our motion for a resolution, is cooperation between the member states in higher education, but this must be done by guaranteeing the right of everyone to free, quality public higher education. it is the responsibility of the member states to educate their citizens, and it is their responsibility to ensure that public, universal and free access meets the needs of society and not economic groups.
‒ the so-called 'bologna process' is now a central theme, whatever approach is taken to the situation in higher education systems in the various member states, not only because of the consequences it already has on the life of universities and polytechnics, but above all because of what it represents in the pursuit of the federalist objective by the european powers. this report, while acknowledging some of the serious consequences of the bologna process, including the failure to achieve the so-called 'student mobility objective', which has been blocked by the fact that mobility rates remain low, proposes a regenerative bath, trying to give a new breath to a process that cannot be renewed. all the foreseen consequences, such as the difficulty of access to higher education for those who are less economically able, the creation of an army of cheap labour and the loss of the critical training culture that traditional higher education tended to impart, can never be reversed or mitigated by more private investment, by a faster implementation of the process, by the establishment of more companies within universities, with the aim of making studies in accordance with the requirements of the markets, leading to the privatisation of education, as the rapporteur argues. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the the year 2014 was notable for the large number of european films distributed in europe: 1,500 movies were released, which is twice the number of movies in the united states. however, the number of european film viewers was inversely proportional. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the cinema operators in the form of a grant of eur [...] per cinema per year. according to the european audiovisual observatory (eao), around 87% of the total of 30 000 cinema screens in the eu were digitised at the end of 2013. the next challenge for the audiovisual sector is the need to ensure genuine and effective distribution of european films, ensuring their visibility and reaching wider audiences. with a budget of eur 1,5 billion for the period 2014-2020, the creative europe programme is a very important source of funding for the audiovisual sector. the budgetary appropriations for the coming years will support the circulation of more than 800 european films, inside and outside the european area. in addition, the programme aims to provide ongoing support to more than 80 european film festivals, which promote films from the region.
in writing. ‒ fewer and fewer film festivals are supported by public funds, including eu funds. some of the oldest portuguese festivals have lost support and ended. it's the festroia case. the report advocates a shift in the way european cinema is promoted, arguing that the 'good examples' come from the us and canadian film industries, i.e. it supports a market-oriented and less people-oriented approach to the role of entertainment, without taking into account the social, cultural and educational role of cinema. the considerations that we certainly follow are the defence of cultural diversity as a facilitator of the promotion of cultural exchanges and critical thinking, the support and promotion of national cultural policies, an increase in public funding for greater distribution and better promotion of european cinema, and support for subtitling in all eu languages. however, we do not agree with the view that creative europe funds should be used only for the distribution and promotion of films, as producers in several countries, including portugal, are experiencing serious difficulties. we agree that distribution should also be supported, but only for those who do not have the means and not for the large distributors. promotion must also be supported.
‒ the european film industry is one of the largest producers in the world, with more than 1 500 films released in the past year. it is also common knowledge that european films are characterised by their quality, originality and diversity but face limitations in terms of promotion and distribution in the european union. i support this report which calls for the union to promote, distribute and facilitate access to european film productions, and the digital single market should make a decisive contribution to this incremental improvement. i also believe that the creative europe programme, with a budget of eur 1.5 billion until 2020, should play a key role in boosting the production and dissemination of european cinema.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on european cinema in the digital age, which is designed to support the european film industry and encourage its promotion, distribution and visibility so that all citizens of europe can reap the benefits of its cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ trying to reconcile cinema as a cultural and economic good and to exploit the potential of the european film industry is an excellent idea. but this will only be possible with credible investment in the development of innovative services, new business models and distribution channels to improve the availability of european films outside the eu and allow viewers to access an even wider range of films on an increasing number of platforms. investments are needed in the promotion, distribution, digitisation of content and the creation of a film culture (in connection with schools). unfortunately, the lack of investment in the creation of a strong european film industry has tended to undermine this desire. in this respect we still have much to learn from the good business practices that come to us from the united states.
‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, following the commission communication entitled 'european cinema in the digital age: bridging cultural diversity and competitiveness', because i agree with the overall political priorities set out in it in terms of promoting innovation, whether in services, new business models or distribution channels, financing, mechanisms to facilitate film production and distribution, tax incentives, training and audiovisual education. the commission communication which gave rise to this motion for a resolution sets out a strategy to increase audiences for european cinema, in particular by increasing promotion and cross-border distribution, and stresses the need to strengthen the effectiveness of the existing funding instruments in order to promote the competitiveness and growth of the european film industry and its diversity. i would remind you that europe has a significant cultural (as well as heritage and economic) heritage in audiovisual terms, which is why i share the view that the european film industry must thrive in a stable and comprehensive legal framework that promotes investment, diversity and higher levels of competitiveness for the sector.
the report also calls for the european parliament to be given the right to vote on the proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. an example is given below where production is decreasing but distribution and promotion is massed, with more films being produced in europe but only 32% being distributed and promoted in all eu countries. it reflects some concerns and proposals that we certainly support, such as ensuring the promotion of cultural differences as a facilitator of the promotion of cultural exchanges and critical thinking, the support and promotion of national cultural policies, increased public funding for greater distribution and better promotion of european cinema, support for subtitling in all eu languages in order to preserve not only the cultural aspects but also to improve access for all people, including those with hearing impairments.
‒ this report comes at a time when fewer and fewer film festivals are being supported, as is the case with some of the oldest portuguese festivals, such as festroia. the report advocates a shift in the way european cinema is promoted, arguing that the 'good examples' come from the us and canadian film industries, i.e. it supports an overly market-oriented and not very people-oriented approach to the role of entertainment without taking into account the social, cultural and educational role of cinema. some concerns and proposals are mentioned which we certainly follow, such as ensuring the promotion of cultural differences as a facilitator of the promotion of cultural exchanges and critical thinking, supporting and promoting national cultural policies, increasing public funding for wider distribution and better promotion of european cinema, and supporting subtitling in all eu languages. however, we do not agree with the view that creative europe funds should be used only for the distribution and promotion of films, as producers in several countries, including portugal, are experiencing serious difficulties. we agree that distribution should also be supported, but only for those who have no means, and not the big distributors.
‒ the european union does not have the competence to draw up a common forestry policy, but certain union policies are likely to have an impact on national forestry policies. wood is a renewable resource that is often under-utilized in europe and the smart and sustainable use of this raw material must be ensured, in particular through the development and exchange of know-how. the forestry sector currently employs over three million european citizens and its long-term competitiveness will only be possible with a skilled workforce. given that many eu policy areas, such as energy, environmental and climate protection policy, influence forest management, i agree that a new eu forest strategy, focused on better coordination, is urgently needed so that forestry and forests are better positioned in the different european strategies and a more coherent approach can be found.
‒ the 'new forest strategy' has some positive aspects, such as the recognition of the multifunctionality of forests. this strategy fails, however, in failing to recognise the growing conflicts between the various sectors that depend on the forest. although some of our proposals are reflected in the report, such as the protection of biodiversity, the creation of specific support measures for the prevention of forest fires and pests, the need and function of the forest for the protection of soil erosion and the need to recover much of the vegetation cover lost by poor and unsustainable forest management, we regret that several other proposals we made were not considered. this report is being hampered by pressure from the large groups linked to the timber and energy sectors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms. forestry policies that take into account the importance of forests in protecting biodiversity, preventing soil erosion, carbon sequestration, air purification and maintaining the water cycle are required.
‒ the european union does not have the competence to draw up a common forestry policy, but certain union policies are likely to have a specific impact on national forestry policies. i am voting in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of sustainable forest management and its multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view, as well as its positive impact on biodiversity and the mitigation of climate change. i also stress the need for forest resources to be used and reused efficiently, making a decisive contribution to the proper and sustainable management of forests.
‒ this document constitutes a new european union strategy for forests and the forestry sector, which aims to focus on better coordination, so that forestry and forests are better positioned in the different european strategies and a more coherent approach can be found. for all these reasons and because of the importance of this sector for the economy and society, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ with over 3.5 million jobs and the third largest employer in europe, after the metal and food industries, the forestry sector will undoubtedly be an additional economic pillar and a good way to ensure quality of life and employment. it is important that the commission has a new eu strategy for forests, but it is also important to safeguard the sustainable and responsible management of forests, balancing their multifunctional role in economic, social and environmental terms.
‒ forests are an absolutely central asset of our union, which should be preserved and managed in a sustainable way. in terms of employment, more than 3.5 million europeans are currently employed in the forestry sector, making it the third largest sector in europe, just behind the metal and food industries. given its cross-cutting nature, it is necessary for the union to have an integrated strategy for sustainable forest management (together with, for example, energy, environmental and climate protection policy) and to develop an action plan on deforestation/forest degradation, encouraging the conservation and management of existing forests as well as the reforestation of previously deforested areas. in terms of support to member states, i share the view that the eu should support national policies for sustainable forest management and strengthen prevention and cooperation on increasingly common cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change and natural disasters. finally, i would also like to stress, as the rapporteur has done, the importance of the sustainable production and use of materials such as wood or cork for the creation of green jobs and as a means of promoting greater research and innovation in the sector.
‒ the updating of the european forest strategy should take into account the need to safeguard the multifunctional role of forests and to contribute to their sustainable management. these should be the central aspects of this strategy and of the monitoring of its implementation. in this context, forest management plans and the management of the natura 2000 network should follow an integrated approach. the first are fundamental instruments for the conservation, recovery and promotion of natural capital, biodiversity and ecosystems, and explain the management objectives of the natura network. the evolving climate change context brings new risks, such as increased occurrence of fires and pests and diseases, which require increased attention from public policies.
‒ this new strategy has some improvements, notably in terms of recognising the multifunctionality of forests, i.e. the recognition that forests serve the social, environmental and economic interests as well as the interests of all the ecosystems that exist in them. this strategy fails, however, to recognise the growing conflicts between the various sectors that depend on forestry and the growing demand for biomass from the energy sector. we regret that many of the proposals we made in the committee on agriculture have not been considered, in particular the need to create criteria which reflect the great diversity of the type of forests in europe, criteria for environmental and social value above any logic of financial profit, the need to recognise the various agroforestry activities and their social and economic function. the report before us today is being pushed by the major groups linked to the wood and energy sectors, as can be seen in the amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development, such as point k (considering that, due to the growth of the world population, there is an increasing demand for energy, so forests must play a more important role in the future energy mix of the eu).
‒ this report refers to the new european forest strategy presented by the european commission. this new strategy introduces some improvements, notably in the recognition of the multifunctionality of forests, i.e. the recognition that forests serve the social, environmental and economic interests as well as the interests of all the ecosystems that exist in them. this strategy fails, however, in not recognising the growing conflicts between the various sectors that depend on the forest and the growing demand for biomass by the energy sector. however, the report which parliament is presenting to us today is under pressure from the major groups linked to the timber and energy sectors, as can be seen in the amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development, such as point (k). we abstained.
the agenda for security places the emphasis precisely on the need to coordinate the resources of the member states and the union and its internal and external policies under a strategic orientation. but it's time to move beyond theoretical exercises. we need to put into practice the instruments we already have and those which the treaty of lisbon gives us in the service of a smart, comprehensive, capable and democratically controlled security strategy. it is fundamental to realize that there is no internal security without external security. the bridge between the internal and the external is very much present in the terrorist threat, in cyber security, in money laundering, this has to be a central axis for the security of the union, of the states and of the citizens. it is time for states to understand that in matters of security it is no use for each to think and act on its own. as the tragedy of the mediterranean shows, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, arms, drugs, terrorism and organised crime, we need a united europe that shares information, coordinates policies and resources, respecting fundamental principles and values. we must share the instruments which are now in the hands of the states in the service of the union. we need to ensure the interoperability of systems and technologies and to coordinate the work of specialised agencies such as europol, eurojust, frontex, etc., with consistent, appropriate mandates and adequate human and financial resources, for the collective security of the union and for global security.
in writing. i am pleased to see the commission presenting today the 'european agenda for security', a structured document with an approach that goes beyond the inflamed reactions following the terrible attacks in paris and copenhagen. the communication contains two points which i consider to be key. first, it recognizes that only by preserving our rights and freedoms are we truly protecting our citizens from terrorists. a security policy which does not respect them would be a policy which makes the terrorists victorious. secondly, there is the exchange of information between member states. as i have said many times, we must encourage a genuine european area of cooperation based on the exchange of information. in this context, the cornerstone of the schengen information system remains with its potential still to be fulfilled; the same applies to prüm and the swedish initiative. despite the questionable reference to new data collection tools - such as pnrs - the commission places its emphasis on them. in short, a genuine security agenda must promote effective operational cooperation, with information sharing and processing and mutual trust, while respecting the fundamental rights of the citizens it aims to protect.
in writing. 'identifying, seizing and systematically destroying vessels used by traffickers in human beings, dismantling their network, seizing their property': this seems to be the task of the eu high representative federica mogherini's mission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for trafficking in human beings. the eu's responsibility for the complete destabilisation of an entire region, with particular reference to iraq, libya and syria, is not mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, increasing the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative is a basic measure, since this amount was so low that the member states with the greatest difficulties in paying the european social fund co-financing, that is to say, often the same ones that also have high rates of youth unemployment, could do almost nothing without this elementary measure which we will be supporting tomorrow. but there's something that won't be solved by this measure. this initiative continues with a very low overall budget, below what is needed, to be able to have a real influence on solving the problem of youth unemployment. as estimated by the ilo, €21 billion would be needed. funds are advanced, but not increased. and there's something we don't know yet. in implementing the programme, where it exists, does the number of jobs created outnumber the number of jobs destroyed? and the contracts, are they permanent and entitled? the majority of contracts are fixed-term, vocational training and traineeships, i.e. precarious links which replace permanent jobs, often after a layoff. because that is not a guarantee, but it is the continuation of insecurity.
mr president, most countries of the european union do not provide adequate legal protection for whistleblowers of corruption, tax evasion and other crimes. this parliament, in the report of the committee on crime in 2013, therefore called on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal with an effective european programme for the protection of those who report cases of mismanagement and irregularities in the public and private sectors, at national and cross-border level. the commission considers that luxopco's business model is not in line with the market economy investor principle. it is intolerable that a founding member state of the european union should criminalise journalists and other whistleblowers for exposing acts of tax dumping which have been practised for years by the luxembourg administration and private companies. the attitude of the luxembourg authorities is in breach of european law, of the public interest and shows contempt for freedom of the press, the right to information and transparency, which are crucial pillars of our democracies. antoine deltour and others informed citizens about unfair, immoral and possibly illegal practices. its general importance overlaps with the breach of luxembourg's law on the confidentiality of agreements, which will be illegal if the recently proposed rules of the european commission on the exchange of information between member states on tax agreements are adopted. so i appeal to the good sense of the luxembourg public prosecutor's office to drop these charges against the whistleblowers and journalists involved in luxleaks.
mr president, we are having this debate on a very specific matter, mr perrin, a journalist, has disclosed information of public interest in relation to luxleaks and is the third person to be charged in this matter. well, the information that has come out is so relevant and so of public interest that we have actually set up a special committee in this parliament to look into this situation. this proves the state of affairs we have reached, because it is mr juncker, not mr perrin, who should be held accountable for this situation, it is those who have helped the citizens who are being tried. however, the person who has harmed the citizens is the president of the european commission. i think this example is very clear of the state we have reached, it is very clear - that is why european citizens look away from the european institutions - and if the european commission, in a matter as sensitive as this, does absolutely nothing to protect these people, it is sending a signal to the citizens who, in fact, have to distrust the european institutions. so we must thank the work of these people and protect it and not condemn it, and that is the role of the european commission and no one else.
mr president, tax havens, tax fraud and tax evasion are at the heart of the political and media news. they are in themselves an accusatory libel against a capitalist system which is rotten inside and which will fall from its rottenness as a result of the struggle of the peoples. the fact that we're here discussing the need to protect whistleblowers reveals the complete failure of the judicial systems and all the tax enforcement and control apparatus that have long served the interests of big business. in fact, political power has long been captured by economic power, serving its interests to the detriment of the people. the fact that antoine deltour, among others, is risking five years in prison and a fine of over one million euros is another aspect that reveals to us another complete reversal of the values and the rules that determine who should be in prison and who should be free.
mr president, i put a question, i put a letter, i raised it, i held it up for a minute or so and you did not give me the floor before you gave the floor to my colleague, that is all. now, what i wanted to ask mr. farage is that mr. farage sings well, but i don't love it. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two realities we cannot ignore. the first is that we do not have and need to have real european asylum and immigration policies that are effective and supportive. the second is that we are facing a humanitarian emergency. now more than ever, saving lives must be a priority! if nothing is done, and if the trends continue, we will reach the end of 2015 with more than 9,000 deaths. mr president-in-office of the council, donald tusk, there is no diplomatic way to say this: the council has failed in both these areas, apart from the necessary measures. there is no european asylum and immigration policy in sight and the humanitarian emergency has not been fully addressed. the intention to triple the budget of operation triton has a media impact, but we all know what that means. it means that the european union, which has 28 member states, is planning to invest as much as one country alone, italy, was doing with its mare nostrum operation. i would ask the commission and the council to assure this parliament that regulation 656/2014, which we adopted last year, is indeed being applied, which seems to have been called into question by statements by frontex officials. contrary to what some people say, mr president, we need more europe and more solidarity here too. i look forward to the agenda of the committee on migration! because it's time to act!
mr president, if the european union has a military mission against piracy in the indian ocean, why does it not mobilise the navies, coastguards and air forces of the member states to search and save lives in the mediterranean? to capture and bring to justice the smugglers and destroy their boats? why is there not a common migration and asylum policy with legal pathways for migration that takes away the profits of the criminal enterprise from the slave networks? what distributes migrants and refugees fairly among member states? why does the council indecently allow member states to sell the right of residence in golden visas to rich foreigners and take back the poor who are fleeing war, oppression and poverty? why does the european council not try to ensure that we have coherent external policies, including development policies, which help to resolve conflicts rather than aggravate them, as in syria, libya, ethiopia or eritrea, leaving the people to their fate? when will europe ask the un security council for a peacekeeping mission to help rid libya of terrorism, proxy war and return to democratic transition?
in writing. thousands of people are losing their lives in the mediterranean, in a mass exodus from countries in africa and the middle east. victims of war, hunger and extreme poverty. the european council, meeting in an extraordinary session on this pretext, is playing dry crocodile tears around these tragic events. instead of finding effective solutions to the problem, it decides to deepen the com munitization of its immigration policy and to deepen the european neighbourhood policy they themselves are part of the causes of these tragedies. the european union bears heavy responsibilities in these tragic events. its policies of aggression, interference and support (military and financial) for the destabilisation of the countries in those regions, promoting war and extremist movements, are at the basis of the intensification of these migratory flows. the solution is the repressive treatment and criminalization of refugees and immigrants. it is only by reinforcing the vision of a 'fortress europe' closed to migration flows that it contributes to maintaining human trafficking networks. the solution is to create the conditions for the integration of refugees and immigrants. and, immediately, for search and rescue operations in the mediterranean. and for an end to the policy of destabilization, interference and war. but the opposite has been the case in this european council...
‒ the commission is responsible for implementing the budget and managing the programmes on the functioning of the european union in cooperation with the member states in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. i voted in favour of the commission's discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of these decisions, which give the commission and the implementing agencies (education, audiovisual and culture executive agency, small and medium-sized enterprises executive agency, consumers, health and food executive agency, european research council executive agency, research executive agency, innovation and networks executive agency and innovation and networks executive agency) discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ despite the measures taken by the european union and the individual member states to combat youth unemployment, the figures are alarming and there is no prospect of a reduction in the short term. the youth employment initiative is one of the main instruments for combating this scourge, but its rate of use is low because of the lack of public funds for the launch of projects to offer young people a job, a traineeship or training. the member states most affected by youth unemployment are also those which have the greatest difficulty in obtaining co-financing. i support the report by mrs morin-chartier which is to unlock €1 billion under the youth employment initiative, allowing for pre-financing of operational programmes for 2015, which means that the states will receive money earlier to help young people return to work and education or to do a traineeship. the pre-financing rate of the yei is thus increased from 1% to 30%, which allows, for example, portugal to have an advance of around eur 48 million, which will cover the expenditure already incurred since september 2013.
in writing. ‒ the youth unemployment rate has been at a dramatic level for years. the european union has put at the disposal of the member states a number of instruments to combat this scourge affecting our younger generations. the youth employment initiative is one of the european union's instruments for achieving the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by youth unemployment, which has unfortunately not been sufficiently used by the member states. it is therefore necessary to unlock the 1 billion euro as soon as possible and to use it to promote employment and the objectives of the youth guarantee programme.
in writing. ‒ we agree to increase the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative. this is a basic measure, since this amount is so low that member states have difficulty in securing co-financing from the european social fund, including member states with high youth unemployment rates. but there's something that won't be solved by this measure. this initiative continues with an overall budget well below that which is needed to be able to have a real influence on solving the problem of youth unemployment, as estimated by the international labour organization. this measure is an advance, not an increase. and there are questions that remain unanswered: in implementing the programme, will the number of jobs created exceed the number of jobs destroyed? and the contracts are permanent and with rights? or are they mostly fixed-term contracts, traineeships and vocational training, i.e. precarious links that replace permanent jobs, often after a layoff? because this is not a 'guarantee', but the continuation of insecurity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour despite understanding that the youth employment initiative is not the most appropriate way to tackle the problem of youth unemployment, as it is based on the wrong assumption that young people are not active enough in the job search, or that they do not have enough training. however, the release of funds could allow the programmes to actually work, thus enabling young people to find quality employment.
‒ the youth unemployment rate has been at a dramatic and rising level for years. the eu has put at the disposal of the member states a number of instruments to combat this scourge affecting our younger generations. the youth employment initiative is one of the eu's instruments for delivering the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by youth unemployment. to enable member states to launch these key projects, the european commission has decided to move quickly to unlock €1 billion. this is not new money, it has already been earmarked under the youth employment initiative. however, the european commission's proposal aims to mobilise it for pre-financing in 2015. this increase in the financial envelope will be used to increase considerably the pre-financing of the operational programmes for 2015, which will give a second wind to the member states. therefore, this resolution does not amend the european commission proposal amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 on the european social fund by adding an article to chapter iv on the youth employment initiative. so, by choosing the process that will allow the release of a billion euros more quickly, i voted in favour.
‒ this report is a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 on the european social fund as regards the increase in the pre-financing of operational programmes under the youth employment initiative. as the european commission has decided to advance the release of €1 billion which will be used to increase considerably the pre-financing of these programmes for 2015, giving member states another boost, and as the youth employment initiative is one of the eu instruments for achieving the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by youth unemployment, i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. the youth unemployment rate has been rising steadily for years. youth unemployment in the eu remains above 20% and the percentage of young people not in work, education or training is above 10% in most member states. in addition, these rates remain higher for women than for men. the european union has put at the disposal of the member states a number of instruments to combat this scourge. unfortunately, these arrangements have not been sufficiently used by the member states, mainly because of the lack of public funds for projects aimed at providing young people with a job, a traineeship or training. paradoxically, this difficulty in obtaining co-financing is particularly acute in the member states most affected by youth unemployment. i therefore welcome the european commission's decision to release this billion euro, which will enable some essential projects to be launched. tomorrow's sustainable employment depends on investment today in the education and training of young people, as well as on reforms that make it easier for learners to transition between different types and degrees of education and between education and employment.
‒ in the light of the scourge of unemployment which is cross-cutting across the union, the european commission has put forward a proposal to increase the amount of pre-financing available to member states to promote the employment of young people and to provide support for unemployed young people, education or training in the different regions of the most affected countries. in practice, the proposal provides for an increase in the pre-financing rate from 1% to 30% in the 2015 budget allocation, unlocking some eur 1 billion for this year. we note that member states have had difficulty in making the payments necessary for the implementation of actions under the youth employment initiative, with particular emphasis on countries where unemployment levels in this age group are higher, where there are greater budgetary constraints and lack of funding. in the case of portugal, for example, some eur 48 million will be allocated to cover expenditure already incurred since september 2013. i therefore fully support this proposal, as it will help to promote greater integration of young people into the labour market and thereby reduce the dramatic unemployment rate affecting the youngest population in the european union.
in order to address these budgetary constraints faced by many member states and the lack of available funding at the early stage of the programming period, this proposal aims to amend provisions complementing regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 in order to increase the level of initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the yei in 2015. the proposal to amend this regulation also provides for the allocation of an additional initial pre-financing amount from the specific allocation of the yei in order to complement the pre-financing amounts paid in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. however, if within one year the union contribution under the yei does not reach an adequate level in the interim payment applications submitted to the commission, that additional amount of pre-financing should be reimbursed to the commission. despite our doubts about the yei, about the amounts made available (which are far below the real needs of the member states with the highest youth unemployment rate) and about the possible financing of precarious work, the proposal is that we vote in favour.
‒ the budgetary constraints faced by many member states and the lack of available funding at the early stage of the programming period have caused significant delays in the implementation of the yei. in order to address those cross-compliance, this proposal aims to amend provisions supplementing regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 in order to increase the level of initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the yei in 2015. the proposal to amend this regulation also provides for the allocation of an additional initial pre-financing amount from the specific allocation of the yei in order to complement the pre-financing amounts paid in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. however, if within one year the union contribution under the yei does not reach an adequate level in the interim payment applications submitted to the commission, that additional amount of pre-financing should be reimbursed to the commission. we have always considered that the amounts made available under this instrument were far below the real needs of the member states with the highest youth unemployment. we voted in favour of this 'advance' although what would be desirable is an increase in it, as we proposed earlier.
in writing. - i am of the opinion that the commission proposal should be made viable and approved, repealing regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries applicable to imports of textile products from third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other arrangements. in recent years, the european union has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia. following the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, this regulation has lost its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eec) no 3030/93 concerns the common rules applicable to imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded agreements, protocols or other bilateral arrangements. in recent years, the eu has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia. however, with the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, this regulation has lost its main purpose. in addition, this regulation was also used to impose quantitative limits on certain textile products originating in china and, where appropriate, to use the transitional safeguard mechanism specific to china. this safeguard mechanism expired on 11 december 2013. the purpose of this report is to repeal regulation (eec) no 3030/93 because, as a result of the above, it is considered that it no longer makes sense to exist. the fact that it has become legally unnecessary or obsolete does not, however, erase the political meaning of the conditions which justified it - the need to regulate trade and safeguard production systems in the face of the wave of deregulation and liberalization.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 concerns imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols and taken other steps. in recent years, the eu has only maintained bilateral textile trade agreements with russia and serbia. however, following the entry of russia into the world trade organisation (wto) in 2012 and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia in 2013, council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 lost its true function. furthermore, the quantitative limits on products originating in the people's republic of china imposed by the regulation expired on 11 december 2013 and trade has since been liberalised and managed under the wto. in these circumstances, therefore, for reasons of legal certainty, this resolution approves the repeal of the said regulation. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ having lost its main objectives (bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia and the transitional restriction of certain textile products from chima) and having expired on 11 december 2013, and for reasons of legal certainty, the regulation should be repealed.
‒ following the recasting of the report on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries, it is necessary to repeal regulation (eec) no 3030/93, which applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other operations. this was the case for the russian federation and serbia before russia's accession to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia on 1 september 2013. in parallel, the regulation was maintained as a means of imposing quantitative limits for certain textile products originating in the people's republic of china and to use the transitional safeguard mechanism specific to certain products for china, which expired on 11 december 2013. in view of the above, i voted in favour of repealing regulation no 3030/93.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eec) no 3030/93 concerns the common rules applicable to imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded agreements, protocols or other bilateral arrangements. in recent years, the eu has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia. with the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, regulation no 3030/93 lost its main purpose. in addition, this regulation was also used to impose quantitative limits on certain textile products originating in china and, where appropriate, to use the transitional safeguard mechanism specific to china. this safeguard mechanism expired on 11 december 2013. the purpose of this report is to repeal regulation (eec) no 3030/93, which, in view of the above, no longer makes sense.
‒ regulation (eec) no 3030/93 concerns the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded agreements, protocols or other bilateral arrangements. in recent years, the eu has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia. however, with the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, this regulation has lost its main purpose. in addition, this regulation was also used to impose quantitative limits on certain textile products originating in china and, where appropriate, to use the transitional safeguard mechanism specific to china. this safeguard mechanism expired on 11 december 2013. we voted against it because we consider these mechanisms to be important.
in writing. ‒ since this is only a proposal which is a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantive changes, in the context of the application of bilateral safeguard clauses of the existing agreement between the european community and norway, there is nothing to prevent the commission proposal from being approved.
the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen, which will allow him new opportunities and the possibility of benefiting from the specific rights attributed to him. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal amendments required by the codification process itself. it is therefore a highly technical report.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for the codification of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, as it brings greater clarity, transparency and security to european union legislation. as in previous proposals, the accelerated procedure for the adoption of consolidated acts (without substantive amendments) was used, as agreed between the european parliament, the council and the commission in the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994.
in writing. ‒ in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen, which would give him new opportunities and the possibility to benefit from the specific rights attributed to him. in order to ensure clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed, by means of an interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, on an accelerated procedure which can be used for the rapid adoption of consolidated acts. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in the regulation, while preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself.
the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, with the express aim of making eu legislation 'more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen'. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal amendments required by the codification process itself. we abstained.
‒ since this is only a proposal which is a mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes, i support the validation of the commission's proposal.
‒ this report codifies the council regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. the eu signed a stabilisation and association agreement with albania in 2006, the first step towards eventual membership. the aim of this agreement is to establish a free trade area progressively. in general, the primary objective behind the conclusion of such agreements with third countries is their integration into the eu's internal market as a way of ensuring the dominance of their economies by the large transnational corporations of the eu countries, this is the real meaning of "free trade". we are in favour of deepening relations of cooperation and friendship between countries and peoples, based on meeting their real needs, which are mutually beneficial and contribute to mutual development, and we therefore reject agreements which are contrary to these principles. although the main purpose of this report is to help to organize and understand the legislation which was scattered, we are thus making clear our position in principle on the substantive issues underlying it.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of albania. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and albania, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and albania. for the reasons given in other proposals for codification of regulations which apply mutatis mutandis, i shall vote in favour of this one as well.
‒ the proposal under consideration is a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. the purpose of this report is to analyse the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of albania. the eu signed a stabilisation and association agreement with albania in 2006, the first step in a possible accession, with the aim of gradually establishing a free trade area.
‒ the purpose of this report is to examine the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of albania. the eu signed a stabilisation and association agreement with albania in 2006, the first step towards eventual membership. the aim of this agreement is to establish a free trade area progressively. in general, the main objective behind the conclusion of agreements between ec countries and various countries is their integration into the ec internal market, as a way of ensuring the economic dominance of these countries whose economies are weakened by the large transnational corporations of the eu countries - "free trade", "free movement of capital", "liberalisation of the right of establishment and the provision of services", among other aspects. we abstain because in this case the aim is to bring the amendments adopted together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ since this is only a proposal which is confined to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes, it deserves my agreement.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify the council regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters. in general, the primary objective behind the conclusion of such agreements with third countries is their integration into the eu's internal market, as a way of ensuring the dominance of their economy by the large transnational corporations of the eu countries - 'free trade', 'free movement of capital', 'liberalisation of the right of establishment and the provision of services', 'liberalisation of transport' (air, sea, inland waterways and land), among other aspects. we are in favour of deepening relations of cooperation and friendship between countries and peoples, based on meeting their real needs, which are mutually beneficial and contribute to mutual development, and we therefore reject agreements which are contrary to these principles. although the main purpose of this report is to help to organize and understand the legislation which was scattered, we are thus making clear our position in principle on the substantive issues underlying it.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 594/2008 of 16 june 2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify regulation (ec) no 594/2008 of 16 june 2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement on trade and related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. in view of the clarity and rationality inherent in the document, which has been subject to several amendments, i agree with the proposal to adopt, in this case, the accelerated procedure for the official codification of this legislative text, preserving the content of the codified acts in full.
‒ this report aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 594/2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community and bosnia and herzegovina. in general terms, the first objective is to integrate the ec into the internal market, as a way of ensuring the dominance of its economy by the large transnational corporations of the eu countries: 'free trade', 'free movement of capital', 'liberalisation of the right of establishment and the provision of services', 'liberalisation of transport' (air, sea, inland waterway and land), among other aspects. we are in favour of deepening friendly relations with other peoples based on meeting their real needs, which are mutually beneficial and contribute to mutual development, respecting the principle of non-interference and respect for national sovereignty, but we reject outright agreements which go against these principles. we do, however, think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ in general, the main objective behind the conclusion of agreements between the ec and various countries is their integration into the ec's internal market, as a way of ensuring the economic dominance of these countries whose economies are weakened by the large transnational corporations of the eu countries - 'free trade', 'free movement of capital', 'liberalisation of the right of establishment and the provision of services', 'liberalisation of transport' (air, sea, inland waterway and land), among other aspects. we are in favour of deepening friendly relations with other peoples based on meeting their real needs, which are mutually beneficial and contribute to mutual development, respecting the principle of non-interference and respect for national sovereignty but also, and directly, agreements which are contrary to these principles. we abstain because in this case the aim is to bring the amendments adopted together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ since this is only a proposal which is confined to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes, it deserves my agreement.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 of 21 january 2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
‒ in the interests of clarity and rationality of european legislation, we are again faced with a proposal to codify regulation (ec) no 153/2002 of 21 january 2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this is an eminently technical proposal, linked to the need to codify acts which have not been amended more than ten times and which use the accelerated procedure which was concluded by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, and for this reason it deserves my support.
‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the consultative group, composed of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, has reached the unanimous conclusion that the proposal at issue is in fact a pure and simple codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in that sense, we have nothing to object to. we have, however, expressed our disagreement with a free trade policy on the part of the eu which is being extended solely for the purpose of conquering new markets at the expense of destroying the productive apparatus of the peripheral countries.
in writing. ‒ since it is a matter of verbal approval without any change in the substance of the texts, this technical matter is intended to approve the commission proposal with the recommendations of parliament's legal service, the vote being a formal approval of the diploma for the purpose of codification.
‒ since this is only a proposal which is confined to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes, it deserves my agreement.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, articles relating to the general principle of the prohibition of state aid to undertakings. state aid is an important economic policy instrument to boost economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular to enable the state to intervene in order to realise its strategic choices, to ensure the financing of public services and to compensate undertakings which provide services of general interest.' to limit the sovereignty and the capacity of the state to intervene in this area in the name of a sacrosanct 'free competition' is to amputate democracy, to distort it and to conform it to the class interests of a minority, against the interests of the majority, that is to say, it is to deny it in practice. although the function of this report is eminently technical, facilitating the organization and understanding of legislation that was scattered, we thus signal our position of principle on the substantive matter underlying it.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
‒ we know that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to boost economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to realise its strategic options, ensure the financing of public services and compensate companies that promote so-called 'services of general interest'. we know that successive reforms of state aid have reduced the scope for granting such aid. this is generally contrary to public policy which sees state aid as essential to support the regional development efforts of the cohesion countries, and we have therefore voted against these reports. we do, however, think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, articles relating to the general principle of the prohibition of state aid to undertakings. we know that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to boost economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to realise its strategic choices, ensure the financing of public services and compensate undertakings that promote so-called 'services of general interest'. we know that successive reforms of state aid have reduced the scope for granting such aid. this is generally contrary to public policy which sees state aid as essential to support the regional development efforts of the cohesion countries, and we have therefore voted against these reports. we abstain because in this case the aim is to bring the amendments adopted together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ the present proposal, which has received my vote in favour, consists of a codification of regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. it also provides that the commission has the power to declare, by means of block exemption regulations, that certain aid is compatible with the internal market pursuant to article 107 tfeu and without being subject to the notification requirements of article 108 tfeu. these categories include aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, development and innovation, environmental protection, employment and training, among others. i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal on the criteria to be included in each regulation and for each category of aid, since it is essential to know, in particular, the purpose of the aid, the beneficiaries, the ceilings for exempted aid and the forms of control.
‒ since this is only a proposal which is confined to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes, it deserves my agreement.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify the council regulation laying down detailed rules for the implementation of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the purpose of article 108 of the treaty is to determine whether aid granted by states or through state resources is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 or whether such aid is being misused. we consider that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to stimulate economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to implement its strategic options. they are an indispensable instrument for financing public services and for compensating the (public) undertakings which provide them. it should be noted that successive reforms of state aid have reduced the scope for granting state aid. this is contrary to a general public policy which aims to support the regional development of the cohesion countries, and we have therefore voted against these reports. although the function of this report is eminently technical, facilitating the organization and understanding of legislation that was scattered, we thus signal our position of principle on the substantive matter underlying it.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 25 september 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
‒ i support this proposal, which aims to codify regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the tfeu. the aim is to lay down procedural rules for the application of the state aid rules. as we know, the commission must be notified and give its approval to any plans to grant new state aid. the notification procedure should be reviewed in order to improve its form and efficiency, and the powers of the commission should be defined in a regulatory manner, in particular as regards confidentiality, the examination of possible unlawful aid, the handling of complaints, and so on. i therefore consider that the objectives set have been achieved and therefore i am voting in favour.
‒ the purpose of this report is to consolidate the council regulation laying down detailed rules for the implementation of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we consider that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to stimulate economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to implement its strategic options. they are an indispensable instrument for financing public services and for compensating undertakings which provide services of general interest.' it should be noted that successive reforms of state aid have reduced the scope for granting such aid. this is contrary to a general public policy which sees state aid as essential to support the regional development efforts of the 'cohesion' countries, and we have therefore voted against these reports. we do, however, think it is important that all the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime should be brought together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ the purpose of this report is to consolidate the council regulation laying down detailed rules for the implementation of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the objective of article 108 of the treaty is to verify whether aid granted by states or through state resources is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107. we consider that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to stimulate economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to implement its strategic options. they are an indispensable instrument for financing public services and for compensating undertakings which provide services of general interest.' it should be noted that successive reforms of state aid have reduced the scope for granting such aid. this is contrary to a general public policy which sees state aid as essential to support the regional development efforts of the 'cohesion' countries, and we have therefore voted against these reports. we abstain because in this case the aim is to bring the amendments adopted together in a single document, making the legislation easier to understand.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which concerns the court of auditors' special reports, in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2013, as i consider that the court of auditors' observations will have the effect of improving the budgetary practices of the commission in particular and of the eu in general.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and proper functioning of the european institutions, and it is obviously here that the court of auditors' special reports should be examined.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the specific objectives of development policy should be safeguarded by the european external action service (eeas) and the european development funds (edf), financed by the member states, are the main financial instrument for the provision of union aid in the context of development cooperation to the acp states. the commission also notes that the pre-financing instruments paid by the european commission amounted to eur 424 million and that the operating revenue amounted to eur 124 million in the financial year 2013. i therefore believe that the rationalization and approximation of edf rules will probably lead to a reduction in the risk of error and inefficiency and to an increase in the level of transparency and legal certainty.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the court of auditors' audit concluded that no serious deficiencies were identified in relation to the audited items concerning parliament. the final appropriations of parliament for 2013 thus totalled eur 1 750 463 939, reserved for the administrative expenditure of the union institutions as a whole, corresponding to an increase of 1,9% compared to the 2012 budget. of the total, 70% correspond to expenditure on members of the institution, officials and temporary staff, buildings and ancillary expenditure and expenditure relating to parliamentary assistance. of this amount, 99.02% of the appropriations entered in the budget of the european parliament were used, i.e. a cancellation rate of 0.8% was recorded, and, as in previous years, a very high level of budget implementation was achieved.
‒ this report on the discharge for the year 2013 to the european parliament is intended to certify the final accounts. there is generally sufficient assurance that the accounts reflect the financial situation of parliament, and there are no questions or reservations. for these reasons i voted in favour of this document. however, i would like to stress four elements which are present in this document. firstly, the question of the single seat which would lead to long-term savings in the union budget. secondly, i am in favour of greater transparency in the allocation of general expenditure and i therefore believe that parliament should come up with solutions. i also believe that there should be more clarity in the information concerning local assistants and apas. finally, it should be noted that the evaluations of the parliamentary work of members carried out by external organisations, based on quantitative criteria, often generate unnecessary work for purely statistical purposes, with consequences for the general budget of the union.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the president of the european parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european council and the council had an overall budget of eur 535 511 300, which was 86.7% lower than the previous year. in this report there are indicators that should be taken into account such as the decrease in the utilisation rate in 2013 compared to 91,8% in 2012 or the under-execution rate remaining high and covering almost all categories. i agree that the european council and the council should have separate budgets in order to contribute to the transparency of the financial management of these institutions and to better accountability by both, and i welcome the positive trend of the council budget for 2013 not to see any increase (0.3%, or eur 1.6 million).
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision postponing the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013.
‒ when doubts or irregularities are detected, it is prudent to postpone the discharge. this was the case with the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. this is the assessment of the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european external action service (eeas) has continued to implement its budget without the european court of auditors having identified any material error. the final budget of the eeas headquarters for the financial year 2013 was eur 508,8 million, representing an increase of 4,09%, broken down as follows: eur 195,81 million for the eeas headquarters and eur 312,95 million for the union delegations. at the eeas headquarters, 69% of the budget is allocated to the payment of salaries and other related entitlements of statutory and external staff (eur 134,59 million) and 10% (or eur 19,92 million) to buildings and related expenditure. in the case of the union delegations, eur 106,6 million (34%) is allocated to salaries of statutory staff, eur 62,2 million (19,9%) to external staff and eur 99,6 million (31,8%) to buildings and related expenditure. i also note that significant cost savings can be made by better cooperation between member states on their foreign and security policy and by proactively identifying joint efforts which the eeas can gradually undertake so that the union can be a stronger and more effective global actor.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving discharge to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european external action service did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of justice of the european union for the financial year 2013.
‒ the court of justice had commitment appropriations of eur 354 880 000 and the implementation rate was 96.3%. the lower rate of implementation can be attributed to the fact that the initial 2013 appropriations included a proposal to adjust salaries and pensions for a total amount of around eur 6 000 000, which the council ultimately did not approve. the court of justice closed 701 cases in 2013 (595 cases were transferred to the court in 2012) and 699 new cases were brought before it (632 in 2012), including 450 appeals and preliminary ruling requests, and the duration of the cases was slightly reduced. i agree with the recommendations in the report for increasing the court's operational effectiveness.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and having regard to the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the registrar of the court of justice of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the court's budget did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the court of auditors' budget implementation did not present any major problems (accounts audited by an independent external auditor).
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the eesc had a budget of eur 130 104 400, with a utilization rate of 94.1% and i regret that the utilization rate in 2013 was lower than 96.8% in 2012. however, the eesc budget is purely administrative, with a large proportion allocated to expenditure on staff and the remainder to buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous running costs; the committee notes the explanation of the eesc that the decrease in the utilization rate is due to precautionary measures. value and support supports the eesc's efforts to limit budgets for the coming years, thus ensuring a flat-rate increase, and its intention to plan its work more effectively in the legislative process, without necessarily increasing the number of opinions and emphasising, instead, their quality.
in writing. the report concludes that the payments for the financial year 2013 relating to administrative expenditure were free from material errors and that no significant shortcomings had been identified in the accounts of the european economic and social committee. the report also makes some pertinent comments on the eesc's accounts. it is concerned about the delay in adopting the internal whistleblowing rules and urges the eesc to apply them without delay. is concerned that several important events planned for 2013 have been cancelled or postponed, which highlights the need for the eesc to plan better the organisation of events internally; the decrease in the use of external translation should be offset by an increase in the number of interpreters/translators, which is not guaranteed. it should be noted that the eesc only makes the homepage available in portuguese, and the website is only available in english and french, although it makes the documents available in all the official eu languages. the report highlights the positive aspect that the eesc has applied the new rules on reimbursement of members' travel expenses on the basis of actual costs, as recommended by parliament.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the report under review, as regards the audit work, concludes that the payments for the financial year 2013 relating to administrative expenditure were free from material errors and that no significant shortcomings had been identified with regard to human resources and contract award. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the subsidy granted to the sampled union producers. the report stresses the need to increase the visibility of the eesc by strengthening its information and communication policy, which seems to us to be in contradiction with the policy of transferring staff from the eesc to the new european parliamentary research service (eprs). on the other hand, the decrease in the use of external translation, if not compensated by an increase in the number of interpreters/translators, may make this objective more difficult. it should be noted that the eesc only makes the homepage available in portuguese and the website is only available in english and french, although it makes the documents available in all the official eu languages. it stresses, as a positive aspect, that the eesc has applied the new rules on the reimbursement of members' travel expenses on the basis of actual costs, as recommended by parliament. we voted yes.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2013.
‒ in 2013, the committee of the regions had a budget of eur 87 373 000, of which eur 84 800 000 was in commitment appropriations, with a utilization rate of 97%, the utilization rate having decreased in 2013 compared to 98,2% in 2012. the 2013 annual report on subsidiarity, which provides an overview of the committee of the regions' subsidiarity monitoring activities throughout the year, is a valuable tool for parliament's legislative work. i also welcome the new activity-based budgeting system introduced by the committee of the regions, as it is more suited to the specific characteristics of smaller institutions and can thus give a more complete picture of the costs and planned activities.
‒ the committee of the regions is an advisory body representing local and regional authorities in the eu. it is composed of local and regional representatives with democratic legitimacy. its role is to present regional and local views on european legislation by delivering opinions on commission proposals. the commission, the council and the parliament should consult the committee of the regions before taking decisions on matters concerning local and regional government (e.g. employment policy, environment, education or public health). the committee also adopts resolutions on topical political issues. the report stresses the need to increase the committee's visibility by strengthening the indispensable information and communication policy, an objective which seems to us to be in contradiction with the policy of transferring a large number of committee staff to the new european parliamentary research service (eprs), with the intention of the committee to rationalise translation requests and with the transfer of part of the committee's internal translation staff to the new european parliamentary research service (eprs). we support the criticism of the delay in adopting the internal rules on the reporting of irregularities, and it is urgent that the committee of the regions implements these rules.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the committee of the regions has not encountered any major problems in implementing its budget.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013.
‒ the ombudsman's budget is purely administrative and amounted to eur 9 731 371 in 2013, of which eur 7 567 371 were allocated to expenditure on persons connected with the institution, property, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure and expenditure arising from specific tasks carried out by the institution. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. welcomes the results achieved in 2013. i also welcome the fact that the target of closing 70% of cases in less than one year was exceeded in 2013 but, nevertheless, the percentage of inquiries closed within 18 months is still below the target set by the ombudsman, despite having increased from 79% to 81%. the 90% target is realistic and achievable.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the report under review concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 - ombudsman. we welcome the fact that 98,20% of all appropriations have been committed and 91,82% paid, with a utilization rate of 98,20% (compared to 95,88% in 2012), and that there are improvements in financial programming and control. we also welcome the fact that 70% of cases brought to the ombudsman were closed in less than a year; we note that there are still cases which are close to 18 months of resolution despite an improvement over the previous year. as regards interpretation costs, we are concerned about the disparities in translation costs, but we consider this a key area in ensuring equal treatment for the various countries.
‒ the european data protection supervisor is essential for the protection of the data and privacy of european citizens. this role has been strengthened after lisbon, and will be further strengthened by the creation of an independent secretariat for a new european data protection board. with a 2013 budget of around 7,600,000, the execution rate was 84,7%, still below the desirable level despite the evolution from the previous year. the efforts made to ensure that the key performance indicators were established with due care are also to be noted, as they enable the efficiency of the use of resources to be assessed. i also found it unpleasant, for the sake of symbolism, that parliament's recommendation on the security of complaint data has not yet been implemented.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the authority had a total budget of eur 7 661 409 and the implementation rate of these appropriations was 84.7% (83.2% in 2012) - a positive development, but further efforts are needed to improve the implementation rate. the authority's budget is purely administrative and the implementation rate for expenditure on persons connected with the institution is 93,41%, followed by expenditure on buildings, equipment and the running costs of the institution, which is 99,14%. i fully agree with the policy of transparency advocated by the european ombudsman's office and i think it is important to introduce a procedure for assessing in advance the possible impact of certain publications, with the aim of publishing them with an explanatory report, thus avoiding their biased use.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor has not presented any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the budget of the european union agencies for 2013 was approximately eur 2 billion, which demonstrates the importance of an analysis that allows a macro view and, by means of standardised criteria, the comparison between the various agencies. i note and emphasize the prominence of agencies within the so-called area of freedom, security and justice which has been increasing every year. its operational powers should be particularly emphasized, since budget implementation is then dependent on external factors. in any case, an additional effort should be made to comply with the principle of annuality. i regret, with the rapporteur, that the court of auditors still has - at this point - reservations about the legality of the accounts of frontex.
‒ having regard to the budgetary issue concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and in agreement with the considerations and suggestions concerning the financial management and control performance of the eu agencies, i voted in favour of the horizontal observations accompanying the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 of the said eu institutions and agencies.
‒ the number of agencies has increased significantly over the last decade, from 3 in 2000 to 32 in 2013, and they are important in their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens. the main purpose of the decentralised agencies was to carry out independent technical and scientific evaluations, with the executive agencies being given the role of helping the commission to manage eu programmes on behalf of the union itself. i would also stress the large number of agencies set up in the area of freedom, security and justice, but each new agency was created out of real need. based on the summary of the results of the eca's audits of the european agencies and other bodies in 2013, the budget of the agencies for 2013 amounted to around eur 2 billion, representing an increase of 25% compared to 2012 and around 1,4% of the general budget of the union. the agencies employ some 6 500 permanent and temporary staff, representing 14% of the total number of union officials authorised under the general budget of the union.
‒ having regard to the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013, the commission's report on the follow-up to the discharge for the financial year 2012, and the court of auditors' specific annual reports on the annual accounts of decentralised agencies for the financial year 2013, i have voted in favour of this resolution, which contains some general observations on the performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013 was eur 11 930 220, an increase of 64,74% compared to 2012, which can be explained by the nature of the newly established agency. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve budget planning processes by developing and implementing a set of guidelines for those involved in the budget planning process, as well as by carrying out regular analysis and forecasting exercises on the use of appropriations. these budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,53%, which was an increase of 4% compared to 2012, and a reduced payment appropriations execution rate of 55,00%, below the agency's 70% target.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the budget implementation of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators did not present any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the final budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 was eur 3 557 219, representing an increase of 11,51% compared to 2012, due to the fact that the body was recently established. i would point out that budgetary surveillance efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 89,55% and that the payment appropriations execution rate reached 76,58%. the office employed 25 staff and had six vacancies in 28 authorised places. i cannot but regret that 91% of reimbursements to experts made in 2013 were late and late payments were late by an average of 78 days and that the office needs to urgently correct this situation and inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to this end and the results thereof.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving discharge to the management committee of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications has not presented any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the final budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013 was eur 52 193 667, representing an increase of 8,08% compared to 2012. in 2008, the centre concluded 472 framework contracts with translation service providers for a maximum period of four years and in 2012 the centre participated in the procurement procedure for the commission's translation services, although it did not reach an agreement with the commission on the terms of the contract. the agency started its work in 1994 and has, to date, worked on the basis of correspondence and exchange with the host member state. i would also point out that the centre's negotiations with its host member state on its seat have reached the final stage and that the centre has signed the seat agreement with the government of the grand duchy of luxembourg and is awaiting final confirmation in this respect.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the translation centre of the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for eu bodies has not presented any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013. the budget implementation during the financial year 2013 is considered to be positive, resulting in a budget implementation rate of 83,47% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 77,68%. the audit carried out in 2013 by the commission's internal audit service, which resulted in a strategic internal audit plan for the centre for 2014-2016, is also considered positive. we voted in favour of the foregoing.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6,72% compared to 2012. the overall union contribution to the centre's budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 133 900, representing an increase of 1,18% compared to 2012. the budgetary implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,95% and the payment appropriations execution rate reached 92,39%. i would also like to highlight the exemplary measures taken by the centre in terms of more cost-effective and environmentally friendly solutions, and regret that the repair work on the centre's premises is still delayed and will not be completed until 2014. the work of the centre is highly relevant to the union's policy agenda in the field of vocational education and training (vet).
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013, according to its financial statements, was eur 8 450 640 and comes entirely from the union budget. budgetary implementation efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,89% and the payment appropriations execution rate reached 92,46%. i would highlight the academy's efforts to significantly increase the execution rate of payments by 21% compared to 76% in 2012. however, i am concerned that the academy's recruitment procedures are not yet fully transparent and that certain procedural elements are still incomplete, unclear or not in line with the standards.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european police college did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the budgetary issue concerning the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the court of auditors' annual report on the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts and other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 167 023 535, representing an increase of 5,15% compared to 2012, and the union contribution to the agency's budget in 2013 was eur 35 829 562, representing an increase of 0,2% compared to 2012. the agency spent some eur 22 000 000 on procurement procedures with a view to delegating part of its certification activities to the aeronautical authorities and competent bodies and since becoming operational, the agency has been developing its activities on the basis of correspondence and exchanges with the host member state. however, a comprehensive headquarters agreement has not yet been signed with the host member state, which would promote transparency regarding the conditions under which the agency and its staff work.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency did not present any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ i have seen with concern the court of auditors' assessment of the european asylum support office. it is incomprehensible that a support office with a budget of some eur 10 500 000 has not yet been able to justify eur 40 000 for staff costs, that budget implementation has been below 87% and that 24% of the appropriations authorized have been carried over from the previous year. recognising that an effort has been made by the office to improve management, there is a clear need to step up these efforts.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013 was eur 10 500 000 and is entirely financed from the union budget. i am concerned to see that the justification for an increase of eur 40 000 relating to staff costs and allowances entered into in 2013 was not made available during the audit, that budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and that the appropriations carried over amounted to 24% of the total appropriations authorised, 13% of which were not covered by a legal commitment.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european asylum support office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 967 360, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012, which is due to the fact that the authority was recently established. the initial contribution from the union to the budget of the authority for 2013 amounted to eur 10 386 944, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012. the overall level of the authority's committed appropriations was 90%, ranging from 95% for staff expenditure, 98% for administrative expenditure and 92% for operational expenditure. the decision of the court of justice of the european union against the indexation of salaries for the period from 1 july 2011 to 30 june 2013 had a negative impact amounting to eur 1 800 000.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european banking authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 was eur 58 315 000, representing an increase of 0,2% compared to 2012, and the overall union contribution to the centre's budget for 2013 was eur 56 727 000, unchanged compared to 2012. i would highlight the budgetary implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 which resulted in a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92,96% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 74,14%.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. accordingly, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control has not presented any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the agency received from the commission union grants of eur 7 632 000 and pre-financing from the instrument for pre-accession assistance of eur 103 524, as well as other contributions and financing from the commission of eur 920 900. in addition, the agency has been supported by an amount of eur 920 900 from the commission as compensation for unrealised income and an exceptional voluntary contribution of eur 177 057 from norway. the agency's expenditure on biocidal products shall be financed partly by fees paid by industry and partly by a grant from the union. staff costs increased by 11%. the budget revenue from fees and charges amounted to eur 86 113 139 in cash receipts.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency has not presented any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 49 270 722, representing an increase of 18,16% compared to 2012 mainly related to operational expenditure for strategic actions. the union contribution to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 34 886 367, representing a decrease of 1,35% compared to 2012. the rate of implementation of the budget was 98.66% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 88.92%. the agency devotes 71% of its human resources to operational tasks, which represents a slight increase compared to the situation in 2012. the agency has awarded grants, in five grant programmes, to a consortium of european environmental institutions and bodies, united nations organisations and national environmental organisations, representing 31% of the overall operating expenditure.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 9 216 900 and is entirely financed from the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 98.64% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 83.85%. a concern is the high level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 at 38% for administrative expenditure and 43% for operational expenditure. i recognise the important role of the agency in implementing the common fisheries policy and in achieving its objectives, in particular with regard to the landing obligation and the requirements for monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activity.
in writing. we note the call for the discharge to be granted to the accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, notwithstanding the alert for all the anomalous situations or concerns identified in the motion for a resolution. we would like to stress once again that the control of fishing activities in the national exclusive economic zones should be a responsibility of the member states, which should have the necessary resources and mechanisms, with the eu's contribution. without prejudice to forms of coordination, coordination and coordination between countries, we criticise, as we have done before, the centralisation which this agency imposes, in particular by overlapping competences with those which should be the responsibility of the national authorities. we note that the appropriation made available to the agency (eur 9 216 900) for the year in question is a counterpoint to the impossibility of updating and increasing the share of the member states to fulfil their mission.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the budget implementation of the european fisheries control agency did not present any major problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the commission should be able to accept the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 as amended by the council decision of 15 december 2013 on the discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we would point out once again that the control of fisheries in the eezs should be a matter for the member states, which should have the necessary resources and mechanisms, with the eu's contribution. without prejudice to forms of coordination, coordination and coordination between countries, we criticise, as we have done before, the centralisation which this agency imposes, in particular by overlapping competences with those which should be those of the member states. we note that the appropriation made available to the agency (eur 9 216 900) for the year in question is a counterpoint to the impossibility of updating and increasing the share of the member states to fulfil their mission.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 78 051 000, representing a decrease of 0,31% compared to 2012 when the entire budget of the authority was taken from the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 98.80%, a slight decrease on the previous year, and a high implementation rate of 90.80% of payment appropriations. one fact to be borne in mind for the future concerns financial interests which should be dealt with with the utmost care by asking experts to declare whether or not their activities were remunerated, specifying the amount. the current practice of experts keeping their interests anonymous, for example by using the term 'private company', should not be accepted by the authority.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority did not present any significant problems.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 was eur 10 024 535, representing an increase of 29,49% compared to 2012. the institute further reduced the overall level of transitions from eur 2 500 000 in 2012 to eur 2 200 000 in 2013. the institute was established with a view to promoting gender equality, in particular the mainstreaming of the gender dimension in all union and national policies, the fight against discrimination on grounds of gender and the raising of awareness of the union's citizens on the issue of gender equality. it therefore plays a key role in the need to promote and ensure real and effective equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. accordingly, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european institute for gender equality discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality did not present any significant problems.
in the context of the european parliament's powers and, more specifically, of the obligations arising from the application of rule 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure, we voted at this plenary session on 52 reports on discharge for all the institutions of the union, including the european commission, parliament itself, the council and other agencies and bodies carrying out tasks of the union. the european institute for gender equality is part of the group of 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the favourable approval in plenary of the discharge report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement (which carried out a careful and timely examination of the agency's accounts) and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by saying that i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision and i congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has made to summarize and explain clearly in this report (and in the 45 other proposals for decisions on discharge for which he has been rapporteur!).
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the eige was set up in 2010 with the aim of promoting equality between men and women in all eu and national policies, combating discrimination on grounds of sex and raising awareness among citizens on the issue of equality between men and women. the report under review shall cover the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors notes that following its reports for the financial years 2011 and 2012 which indicated the need to take corrective action in some matters, two were completed and two are still ongoing. it notes that the overall level of appropriations committed was 99%. in view of the importance of the role played by the eig in collecting reliable, comparative and gender-discriminatory data, in particular on gender-based violence, and the relative commitment to finding solutions to the irregularities detected, we voted in favour.
‒ having regard to the budgetary issue concerning the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors on the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts and other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 18 767 470, representing an increase of 19,88% compared to 2012, which is due to the fact that the authority was recently established. i am concerned about the high level of appropriations carried over, which reached 28%. parliament was a driving force behind the efforts to create a new and comprehensive european system of financial supervision (esfs) in the wake of the financial crisis, and the creation of the authority in 2011 in this context. the authority has played an important role in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market and is essential to ensure a more integrated and secure insurance and pension sector in the union, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future financial crises.
‒ this report draws attention to some aspects of the functioning of this european insurance and occupational pensions authority. we follow up some of the concerns regarding less positive aspects of the authority's management and accounts. we do not follow the considerations made regarding his role. the report underlines that the authority's role in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential to ensure a more integrated and secure insurance and pension sector in the eu, thus contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future financial sector crises. the old litany, at last. what remains is the instrumental role of this authority in the service of a strategy of privatisation of social security systems and their exploitation by the financial giants of the sector, that is, the advance of monopolistic concentration at european level, calling into question a right and a historic achievement of the workers.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. accordingly, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has not presented any significant problems.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is part of the group of 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are subject to this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement (which carried out a careful and timely examination of the agency's accounts) and the council's recommendation. like previous statements of vote, i would like to end by saying that i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision and congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity of explanation put into the preparation of this report (and also in the other 45 proposals for decisions on discharge to which he was rapporteur!).
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the report notes with concern that the level of committed appropriations carried over was high, reaching 28%, in particular for title ii at 30% and title iii at 85%, which corresponds to an increase compared to previous years. calls on the commission to provide the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the appropriateness of the measures taken to implement the budget in the light of the outcome of the 2013 discharge; we abstained because we do not agree with a common supervisory regime throughout the single market in the insurance and pension sectors.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the financial year 2013 amounted to eur 142 197 740 in commitment appropriations, representing an increase of 47,05% compared to 2012, and eur 98 760 073 in payment appropriations, and the overall union contribution to the budget of the institute for the financial year 2013 amounted to eur 93 462 181, representing an increase of 36,05% compared to 2012. however, it should be noted that for the second year in a row the court lacks reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations since some 87% of the grant expenditure declared by the beneficiaries is covered by certificates issued by independent audit firms which are contracted by the beneficiaries themselves and their partners.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and having regard to the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision postponing the discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ when doubts or irregularities are detected, it is prudent to postpone the discharge. this was the case with the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ unlike all the other 31 decentralised agencies, the european institute of innovation and technology did not have its accounts closed, as a result of the favourable vote in plenary (in which i include my vote) of the motion for a decision containing the decision to give discharge to the director of the eit, which was followed by a statement by the court of auditors stating that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts are reliable but could not obtain adequate and sufficient audit evidence on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court's reservations relate to the legality and regularity of grant operations, concerns about internal procurement procedures, allocated appropriations carried over from 2012 to 2013, lack of an internal audit structure for the whole of 2013. we now await the submission of the requested measures/information to the court of auditors, which should take place by 1 september next, in order to carry out the reassessment and, hopefully, the closure of the 2013 eit accounts.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. ‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the financial year 2013 was eur 251 560 000, representing an increase of 13,07% compared to 2012, with the union's contribution to the agency's budget amounting to eur 40 937 951 (17,03%), representing a decrease of 3,54% compared to 2012. the rate of implementation of the budget was 96.76% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 83.49%. 83% of the agency's budget comes from fees paid by industry, which have been increasing progressively and it is important to ensure full transparency in this aspect of the budget to avoid jeopardising consumer rights or the agency's reputation. the transparency criteria for partners and patient organisations, healthcare professionals and consumers have been revised to increase the transparency of funding.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency did not present any significant problems.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. the european medicines agency is one of the 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the favourable approval in plenary of the discharge report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement (which carried out a careful and timely examination of the agency's accounts) and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to end by saying that i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision and once again congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report (and also in the other 45 proposals for decisions on discharge to which he was rapporteur!).
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) was established in 1993. it was established in lisbon in 1995 and is one of the decentralised agencies of the european union. the work of the observatory has as its main objective the promotion of scientific excellence. to fulfil its core mission of providing reliable and comparable information on drugs in europe, the emcdda has developed the infrastructure and tools to collect data from each country in a harmonised way. these data are sent by the national observatories (the reitox network) to the lisbon observatory for analysis, giving rise to a number of information products which provide an overview at european level. i supported this report, based on the findings of the court of auditors, which states that the centre's annual accounts faithfully reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013, as well as the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, and that the operations underlying the centre's annual accounts for the year 2013 are legal and regular in all material respects.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emccda) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013 was eur 16 308 171,83, representing a decrease of 0,05% compared to 2012, and the overall union contribution to the budget of the centre for 2013 was eur 15 550 000, representing a decrease of 0,01% compared to 2012. the budget implementation rate was 99,73% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 97,71%, representing a slight decrease of 0,1% compared to 2012. the centre has increased the efficiency of its payment processes which have been successfully processed 16 days on average ahead of the deadline.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction did not present any major problems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, based in lisbon, within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, with a budget of eur 16.3 million, is one of the 32 decentralised agencies/bodies (decentralised bodies) whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained 'reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular' and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this document.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, was set up in the wake of the erika disaster in 1999 and plays a key role in ensuring maritime safety in europe. in general terms, the agency provides technical and scientific support to the commission in the area of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships, developing and updating legislation, as well as monitoring its implementation and evaluating the effectiveness of the measures adopted, with the main objective of preventing future problems and accidents. the agency shall cooperate closely with the maritime services of the member states. with the adoption of the new basic regulation in february 2013, the agency's competences have been extended and it is therefore necessary to provide the agency with the financial and human resources to enable it to carry out its tasks. i supported this report on the basis of the court of auditors' findings that it welcomed the regularity of the agency's accounts and did not comment on the agency's financial management in 2013.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 57 819 864, representing an increase of 4,88% compared to 2012, and the overall union contribution to the budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 53 789 658, representing an increase of 2,65% compared to 2012. the rate of budget implementation was 98.07% and the rate of budget implementation of payment appropriations was 88.73%. to underline the agency's efforts to avoid potential conflicts of interest by introducing mandatory internal training for all staff on ethics and integrity.
in writing. we note the call for the discharge to be granted to the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, notwithstanding the alert for all the anomalous situations or concerns identified in the motion for a resolution. we would point out once again that the objectives which justify the existence of this agency cannot be the same as the disregard for the sovereignty of the member states over their exclusive economic zones, which overlaps national authorities and jurisdictions, and which seeks to centralize the definition of marine strategies in the eu. we note that the appropriation made available to the agency (eur 57 819 658) for the year in question is a counterpoint to the impossibility of updating and increasing the share of the member states to exercise their sovereignty in the protection and defence of their waters. it should be noted that the report on innovation in the blue economy, for which we are the rapporteurs and which is currently being prepared, proposes a change in the scope of this agency, located in lisbon, aiming it at wider support for the development of economic activities and research and development related to the sea.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency has not presented any significant problems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european maritime safety agency, also based in lisbon, like the emccda, within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. the european maritime and safety agency, with a budget of approximately eur 58 million, is part of the group of 32 decentralised agencies/bodies whose accounts are subject to this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control, following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying operations are legal and regular, and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the commission should be able to accept the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 as well as the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and the draft budget for the financial year 2013 as well as the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and the draft budget for the financial year 2013 as well as the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and the draft budget for the financial year 2014, as well as the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and the draft budget for the financial year 2014, as well as the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and the draft budget for the financial year 2014, as well as the amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2014, as provided for in the draft budget for the financial year 2013. we would point out once again that the objectives which justify the existence of this agency cannot be the same as the disregard for the sovereignty of the member states over their eezs, which overlap with national authorities and jurisdictions, and seek to centrise the definition of marine strategies within the eu. we note that the appropriation made available to the agency (eur 57 819 658) for the year in question is a counterpoint to the impossibility of updating and increasing the share allocated to the member states to exercise their sovereignty in the protection and defence of their waters.
‒ having regard to the budgetary issue concerning the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors on the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts and other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the 2013 financial year was eur 9 670 185, an increase of 18,53% compared to 2012. the budgetary implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,41% and the payment appropriations execution rate reached 86,46%. in november 2013, the commission approved additional funds for the financing of the new office of the agency in athens, as a total amount of eur 500 000 was not committed at the end of the year and was carried over following a decision of the management board.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the eu agency for network and information security did not present any significant problems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european union agency for network and information security (enisa), within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by rule 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. the european union agency for network and information security is one of the 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the statement by the court of auditors that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 858 799, representing an increase of 0,23% compared to 2012. the rate of implementation of the budget was 97.87% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 88.12%. regrets that the agency has not yet adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, despite the special recommendations in consecutive years by the discharge authority and the court of auditors; if the agency is given new responsibilities following the extension of its functions as a certification body for railway equipment, part of its funding should come from fees and charges levied on the railway sector, which should in any event be commensurate with the level of costs borne by the agency and should not represent a disproportionate cost to the sector.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency has not presented any major problems.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. the european railway agency, with activities split between lille and valenciennes, is part of the group of 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the favourable approval in plenary of the discharge report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement (which carried out a careful and timely examination of the agency's accounts) and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to end by saying that i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision and i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report, and i also subscribe to his recommendation that the agency should be based in one city only.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. the report shall cover the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013. it notes some concerns, such as problems with commitments and carryovers, procurement and recruitment procedures, the policy on conflict of interest and transparency, and with the internal audit service which has been abolished and replaced by the commission's internal audit service. however, paragraphs 19 and 20 of the european parliament's motion for a resolution raise concerns, where it is stated that 'the european parliament regrets that the agency has two locations (lille and valenciennes) for the exercise of its activities'. several jobs may be at stake, as this could reduce the provision of services and call into question the criterion of decentralisation of the institutions. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 28 188 749, representing an increase of 39,01% compared to 2012, due to the additional tasks assigned to the authority resulting in a budget implementation rate of 93,18% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 72,54%. in order to ensure that corrective actions relating to budget implementation were taken in due time, the authority used a number of methods, such as the submission of monthly reports to the executive director and the submission of quarterly reports to the management board. it is regrettable that late payments account for 27% of total payments for goods and services provided, which has resulted in the payment of interest in the amount of eur 3 834, with payments being late by an average of 32 days. the current funding arrangements of the authority are inflexible, create an unnecessary administrative burden and may jeopardise its independence, which should lead to a review of its current funding structure.
‒ during the eruption of the most recent and acute phase of the crisis of capitalism, in 2007-2008, in the face of the evidence of the disaster caused by the dogmas of the deregulation of the financial system, the free movement of capital, finally, in the face of the consequences of financialized capitalism (its current and natural stage of evolution), many were the promises and the takeaways criticizing the speculators, the lack of ethics of the markets and the need to put an end to all this. the eu, its institutions and its protagonists have all lined up, as they should, in this hypocritical chorus. among the promises made in those years, the end of tax havens, the end of financial derivatives, the tax on financial transactions, among others, were on the table. everything would seem to be moving forward now, immediately, from there for days. time passed and the promises that were never fulfilled were silenced and forgotten. the rhetoric of the need to regulate the financial system continued, but instead of measures that could actually have an effect, such as those mentioned above, it was just a matter of ensuring that in practice everything remained the same. this authority is the result of this process. we have denounced its significance since its inception, a position which we reiterate here today by refusing this exemption.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority did not encounter any significant problems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge of the european securities and markets authority, based in paris, within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. the european securities and markets authority, with a budget of just over eur 28 million, is one of the 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 143 500, representing a decrease of 0,01 % compared to 2012. the budgetary implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,78% and the payment appropriations execution rate reached 95,72%. the foundation held eur 7 500 000 in bank accounts in a single bank with a low risk rating. the foundation has made a significant contribution to improving human capital development in partner countries and i welcome the results achieved in 2013 in the context of the medium-term perspective for 2010-2013, which reflect the successful implementation of the four-year plan with a 99% success rate in implementing the objectives set out in its four work programmes.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation did not present any major problems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european training foundation, based in turin, within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by rule 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. the european training foundation, with a budget of just over eur 20 million, is active in the union's external policies and aims to help third countries to improve their human capital, joining the group of 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control, following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained 'reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular', and the council's recommendation. as in previous statements of vote on this same subject, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ eu-lisa is responsible for managing the large-scale information systems of the european union in the area of freedom, security and justice (sis, vis and eurodac). the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the financial transparency of the financial intermediaries. the commission notes that the 2013 budget was not fully used for the purposes of the 2012 meip study. i hope that this situation will be overcome by next year, even though the court of auditors has approved the accounts presented. i stress the great inefficiency of the agency operating in three locations in three different countries (estonia, france and austria) and therefore support the recommendation to the commission to present a study assessing the budgetary impact of this dispersion.
‒ having regard to the budgetary procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the court of auditors' annual report on the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts and other legal provisions contained in the recitals to the proposed decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013 was eur 61 345 072. i express my concern that the court's report gives particular attention to the issues related to the valuation of the sis ii, vis and eurodac systems in the agency's accounts and that in the absence of reliable and complete information on the total costs of developing these systems, the value of these is recorded in the agency's accounts at their net book value according to the commission's books and updated at the end of the year.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. accordingly, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the budget implementation of the european agency for the operational management of information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice did not encounter any significant problems.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's powers to discharge the budget. the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, based in tallinn (estonia), is one of the 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement (which carried out a careful and timely examination of the agency's accounts) and the council's recommendation. as in previous declarations of vote on this same subject, i would like to conclude by saying that i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision and i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has made to produce this report in a way that is both concise and clear.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the budgetary issue concerning the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 682 338, representing an increase of 4,50% compared to 2012, and the union contribution to the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 amounted to eur 15 614 775, representing a decrease of 3,77% compared to 2012. the management board approved the agency's conflict of interest policy in november 2014 which includes provisions on the publication of cvs and declarations of interests of the director and senior management. 2013 was the last year of the eu-osha strategy 2009-2013, highlighting the results achieved by the agency during that period, in particular the promotion of online interactive tools for smes in the field of occupational safety and health management and the promotion of online interactive tools for smes in the field of occupational safety and health management.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work did not present any significant problems.
‒ as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposals for a decision on the european agency for safety and health at work, within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. the european agency for safety and health at work, based in bilbao, spain, is one of the 32 decentralised agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the statement by the court of auditors that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular and the council's recommendation. as i have already said in explanations of vote on this subject, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has made to produce this report in a concise and clear manner.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency (euratom) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 104 000, the same amount as in 2012. the agency's annual accounts note explains that all salaries and some additional costs related to administrative services were paid directly from the commission's budget. the wage costs are disclosed, while no information is provided on the costs of administrative services.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the budget implementation of the euratom supply agency did not present any major problems.
in the same way as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the euratom supply agency (within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure). this agency, which is based in luxembourg, is one of the 32 agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and one of the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the statement by the court of auditors that it had obtained 'reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular' and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on the effort he has made to summarize and explain this report, and by stressing that the agency should have financial autonomy - as provided for in its statutes, not depending on the commission's budget - and that it should pay all salaries and some additional costs directly, relating to administrative services.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 624 300, representing an increase of 3,76% compared to 2012, resulting in a budget implementation rate of 99,50% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 78,10%. the foundation carried out a comprehensive physical inventory in late 2013 and early 2014, and at the time of the court's audit in february 2014, the report on the physical inventory had not yet been completed. the court's tests revealed that not all fixed assets were bar-coded, entered in the books and accounted for, that certain equipment had been booked as an expense instead of being capitalised, and that for certain assets it was not possible to determine the correct date for the start of the depreciation charges.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions did not present any major problems.
‒ as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions - eurofund (within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by rule 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure). this foundation, based in dublin, ireland, with a budget of approximately eur 20.6 million, is part of the group of 32 agencies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained 'reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular' and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by once again congratulating the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. ‒ eurojust has progressively seen its role strengthened and its powers extended. its work is closely linked to research carried out by the member states, and the implementation of the budget - which is around €33.8 million - reflects this. i was nevertheless concerned to see that more than eur 2 000 000 of appropriations authorised for operational expenditure had been carried over, as had the number of budgetary transfers, which concerned 101 headings. the agency has already reported that it has made an effort in 2014 and has succeeded in reducing the number of headings by more than 25%.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 was eur 33 828 256, with the union contribution to the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 amounting to eur 32 358 660, representing a decrease of 1,85 % compared to 2012. it is regrettable that the review process has not been completed, doubting the will to implement a strong policy to prevent and manage conflicts of interest, while the failure to adopt a policy to combat conflicts of interest prevents concrete results in this area. eurojust needs to urgently adopt its revised provisions for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, inform the discharge authority and make the concrete results public by the end of october 2015.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european judicial cooperation unit did not present any major problems.
‒ as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposals for a decision on eurojust - the european judicial cooperation unit (within the framework of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure). eurojust, which is based in the hague, the netherlands, and has a budget of approximately eur 34 million, is among the 32 european agencies/bodies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and among the 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of the discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the statement by the court of auditors that it had obtained reasonable assurances that eurojust's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by once again congratulating the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ europol, the european police service, has gradually seen its scope of action extended. however, its budget of around eur 82,5 million was down by 1,94% compared to 2012, which is to be welcomed. the same is true of the budget implementation rate, which is also better than in 2012. however, problems remain in the award of contracts. although there were also improvements compared with the previous year, the court of auditors considers that the problem is not solved. last but not least, it is difficult to understand the delay in making the curricula vitae of its management and higher bodies available to the public. this is essential to avoid conflicts of interest and, without doubt, to increase the agency's transparency.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013 was eur 82 520 500, representing a decrease of 1,94 % compared to 2012. the court of auditors is concerned that the effectiveness of the procurement procedures during 2013 has been affected by the fact that some decisions were not based on sufficiently specific selection criteria or realistic price offers, and by the fact that they did not comply with the established professional requirements. in accordance with the guidance of the court and the management board of the office, it is envisaged that the europol pension fund will be consolidated with the annual accounts of the office as from 1 january 2016.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the european police office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the european police office did not present any major problems.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's powers to discharge the budget. europol - european police office, based in the hague (as eurojust), is part of the group of 32 agencies/decentralised bodies (ao) whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for year n-2 (in the present case, 2013) and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement (which carried out a careful and timely examination of europol's accounts) and the council's recommendation. as in previous declarations of vote on this same subject, i would like to conclude by saying that i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision and i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has made to produce this report in terms of synthesis and clarity of explanation.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights carries out very important work for the european institutions, the member states and citizens. as its area of activity is quite broad and horizontal, it was very pleasing to see the court of auditors note the excellent budgetary management of the agency in 2013. its budget of just over eur 21 000 000 showed a somewhat high level of carry-over appropriations, but this is in line with the multiannual nature of a large number of the agency's activities. i was also pleased to see that while it does not approve its harmonised policy for the management and prevention of conflicts of interest, the agency has followed an effective set of interim measures.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 was eur 21 348 510, representing an increase of 4,77% compared to 2012, corresponding to a budget implementation rate of 100% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 70,27%. i note the adoption of interim rules before the adoption of its revised policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, based on the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies. the agency is also in the process of harmonising the rules applicable to its management board and is to adopt the rules applicable to its staff.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the eu agency for fundamental rights has not presented any significant problems.
‒ as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the european union agency for fundamental rights (within the framework of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure). this agency, based in vienna, austria, with a budget of eur 21,3 million, is part of the group of 32 agencies/bodies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained 'reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular' and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by once again congratulating the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ the report is concerned with the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013. in general, it notes the agency's good performance in terms of budget implementation and appropriations, financial control, contract award procedures and recruitment. it also notes that the internal audit service carried out a risk assessment in order to adopt the new strategic audit plan for the period 2013-2015, which considered all processes to be satisfactorily controlled. we voted in favour of the foregoing.
‒ frontex, as recent tragedies have shown, works in close cooperation with the member states. not only is it dependent on these but it is also strongly conditioned by the needs imposed by reality. despite this framework, it is not at all acceptable that for the second year in a row the court of auditors should raise doubts about the legality and regularity of the agency's transactions, in particular with regard to subsidies in the context of land/sea/air operations. although some measures to resolve this situation are already known, i would stress their importance and urgency. the same is true of transparency, which still faces some obstacles. i hope that the agency will follow the recommendations made here too.
‒ in the light of the budgetary issue concerning the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of frontex for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 was eur 93 950 000, representing an increase of 4,88% compared to 2012. regrets that for two consecutive years the court has not obtained reasonable assurances as to the legality and regularity of the agency's transactions and that, under grant agreements signed before june 2013, the agency does not routinely request supporting documentation of the rights of the cooperating countries; the commission notes that the 2013 guidelines provide for the application of the principle of proportionality where the commission considers that the aid is necessary to achieve the objective of common interest.
‒ thousands of people are dying in the mediterranean in a mass exodus from africa and the middle east. victims of war, hunger and extreme poverty. the european union bears heavy responsibilities in these tragic events. its policies of aggression, interference and support (military and financial) for the destabilisation of the countries in those regions, promoting war and extremist movements, are at the basis of the intensification of these migratory flows. the repressive treatment and criminalization of refugees and immigrants, or the selective treatment of the latter, do not solve the problem. they made it worse. frontex the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu is an instrument, perhaps the main one, of the inhumane policy which criminalises immigration and refugees. an instrument of a fortress europe closed to migration flows, which feeds human trafficking networks. we have been opposed to frontex since its inception, and we have reaffirmed our opposition by refusing this exemption.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the budget implementation of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) did not encounter any significant problems.
‒ as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states - frontex (within the framework of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure). this agency, based in warsaw, poland, with a budget of approximately eur 94 million, is part of the group of 32 agencies/bodies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by the positive approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control, following the court of auditors' statement that it had obtained 'reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular' and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by once again congratulating the rapporteur on the effort of synthesis and clarity in the explanation put into the preparation of this report.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ thousands of people are dying in the mediterranean in a mass exodus from africa and the middle east. victims of war, hunger and extreme poverty. the european union bears heavy responsibilities in these tragic events. its policies of aggression, interference and support (military and financial) for the destabilisation of the countries in those regions, promoting war and extremist movements, are at the basis of the intensification of these migratory flows. the repressive treatment and criminalization of refugees and immigrants, or the selective treatment of the latter, do not solve the problem. they're at its source and they're making it worse. frontex the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu is an instrument, perhaps the main one, of the inhumane policy which criminalises immigration and refugees. an instrument of a fortress europe closed to migration flows, which feeds human trafficking networks. we have been opposed to frontex since its inception, and we have reaffirmed our opposition by refusing this exemption.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency (gsa) for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european gnss agency (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013 was eur 80 449 967, representing a decrease of 23,76% compared to 2012, and the union contribution to the budget of the agency for 2013 was eur 13 973 518, representing an increase of 9,69% compared to 2012. a regret that the agency has not responded to the questionnaire of the discharge authority on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, which makes it necessary to adopt a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest as a matter of urgency. the commission also expressed concern about the high level of appropriations committed and carried over for administrative expenditure, amounting to eur 1 800 000, or 52%, caused by the specific contracts worth eur 900 000 signed at the end of the financial year due to the late adoption of an amending budget in september 2013.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the budget implementation of the european gnss agency (gsa) has not presented any significant problems.
‒ as in previous discharge reports, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the european gnss agency, within the limits of the powers conferred on the european parliament, in particular by article 94 and annex v of its rules of procedure. this agency, based in prague, czech republic, with a budget of approximately eur 80,5 million, is part of the group of 32 agencies/bodies whose accounts are the subject of this annual political assessment by the european parliament on budgetary control for the year 2013 and of the group of 31 agencies whose accounts were closed by a favourable approval in plenary of their discharge report by the committee on budgetary control, following the statement of the court of auditors, which 'stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular', and the council's recommendation. i would like to conclude by once again congratulating the rapporteur on the effort put into the preparation of this report to summarize and clarify the explanations.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget for artemis for the financial year 2013.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications, and with an allocation of eur 420 000 000 from the budget of the seventh research framework programme. the financial contributions of the member states to artemis should in total be at least 1,8 times higher than the union financial contribution and the in-kind contribution of the research organisations participating in the projects should, throughout the duration of the joint undertaking, be equal to or higher than the contribution of the public authorities. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the joint undertaking in order to ensure that the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities is carried out in a timely manner.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision postponing the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
‒ when doubts or irregularities are detected, it is prudent to postpone the discharge. this was the case for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the clean sky budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of accelerating the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the union with a view to their implementation as soon as possible and has received an allocation of eur 800 000 000. since its inception, the joint undertaking has engaged more than 600 participants in its programme, and has led to new collaborations and the participation of new organisations. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) have been very heavily involved in the programme, with about 40% of the budget allocated to calls for proposals for these enterprises. the discharge therefore merits my approval.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking did not present any relevant problems.
‒ as in the previous votes on the discharge reports for the decentralised agencies, we will also have to consider and vote in plenary, also pursuant to rule 94 and annex v of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, on the draft decisions on the closure of the accounts of the joint undertakings. the clean sky joint undertaking saw its discharge report approved by the plenary with my vote in favour, following the court of auditors' statement that 'the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 reflect fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules' and the council's recommendation.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to the other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of eniac for the financial year 2013.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across the different application areas, with a budget of eur 450 000 000 for a period of 10 years. the eniac and artemis joint undertakings were merged to create the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel), which became operational in june 2014 and will run for 10 years. this initiative has taken comprehensive measures to avoid conflicts of interest and has published them on its website, although further improvements should be considered.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision postponing the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
‒ when doubts or irregularities are detected, it is prudent to postpone the discharge. this was the case for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. ‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in may 2008 in the form of a public-private partnership for a period until 31 december 2017 with the aim of developing commercial applications, thereby facilitating complementary industrial efforts towards the rapid development of fuel cells and hydrogen technologies, with the maximum contribution for the entire period allocated by the union to the joint undertaking being eur 470 000 000 from the budget of the seventh framework programme, of which the part for operating costs shall not exceed eur 20 000 000; the joint undertaking has put in place specific measures to avoid conflicts of interest with respect to its three main stakeholders members of the governing board, experts and staff including a clear definition of conflict of interest, including a database with all related information and a procedure to manage it, which is subject to my approval.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ the discharge procedure is the instrument that ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions. the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking did not encounter any significant problems.
‒ as in the previous votes on the discharge reports of the decentralised agencies, we shall also be required to examine and vote in plenary (also pursuant to rule 94 and annex v of the rules of procedure of the european parliament) on the draft decisions on the closure of the accounts of the joint undertakings. like clean sky and sesar, the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch joint undertaking) also had its discharge report approved by the plenary with my vote in favour, following the court of auditors' statement that 'the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 reflect fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules' and the council's recommendation.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. ‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking innovative medicines initiative for the financial year 2013.
‒ the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of significantly improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process so that the pharmaceutical sector produces more effective and safer innovative medicines in the long term with a contribution of eur 1 000 000 000. a worrying fact to bear in mind is that 14 of the 40 ex post audits of the second representative sample were completed by june 2014, covering eur 3 000 000 and representing 11,8% of the audited population. however, the joint undertaking is required to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socio-economic benefits of the projects already completed by agreeing to the deferral of discharge.
‒ although there is a six-month delay in payment and although part of it is going to industry, we need to invest public money in innovative medicines so that we are not held hostage by the big pharmaceutical industry, as was the case with hepatitis c medicines. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013.
‒ when doubts or irregularities are detected, it is prudent to postpone the discharge. this was the case for the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. ‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the council approved a contribution of eur 6,6 billion (2008 values) from the joint undertaking to the construction phase of the iter project but it is noted with concern and on the basis of the court's 'emphasis paragraph' that this amount, which doubled the costs initially budgeted for this phase of the project, did not include the amount of eur 663 million proposed by the commission to cover any unforeseen events. such a considerable increase in the cost of the project may jeopardise other programmes which are also financed by the union budget and may be in contradiction with the principle of 'cost-effectiveness'. the joint undertaking estimated that the deficit until the completion of the construction phase of the project would amount to eur 290 million, which represents a deviation of 4,39% from the value approved by the council in 2010. i voted in favour of the postponement of the discharge.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ when doubts or irregularities are detected, it is prudent to postpone the discharge. this was the case with the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies. it is for parliament to close a 'budgetary cycle'. this cannot be done without strict budgetary control, checking that money has been properly managed and accurately determining the expenditure and revenue of a year. although it may seem excessively bureaucratic and exhaustive, this is a crucial moment for the proper and regular functioning of the european institutions.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget for sesar for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking (the 'joint undertaking') was set up in february 2007 to manage the single european sky air traffic management (sesar) research programme, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe by dividing the sesar project into a 'definition phase' (2004-07), led by eurocontrol, a 'development phase' (2008-2016), funded by the 2008-2013 programming period managed by the joint undertaking, and an 'implementation phase' (2014-2020), which will run in parallel to the 'development phase'; the budget for the development phase of the sesar project (2008-2016) is eur 2 100 000 000, which will be financed in equal parts by the eu, eurocontrol and the participating public and private partners. the joint undertaking has a vital role in coordinating and conducting research on the sesar project, which is a pillar project of the single european sky. i voted to release you.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013.
‒ as in the previous votes on the discharge reports of the decentralised agencies, we shall also be required to examine and vote in plenary (also pursuant to rule 94 and annex v of the rules of procedure of the european parliament) on the draft decisions on the closure of the accounts of the joint undertakings. like clean sky and fuel cells and hydrogen (pch), the sesar joint undertaking (created in february 2007 to manage the single european sky air traffic management research programme, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe) saw its discharge report approved by the plenary with my vote in favour, following the court of auditors' statement that 'the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for 2013 reflect fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation and the council's recommendation'.
‒ this is a formal procedure whereby it is recognised that the budget implementation of the body under review is in line with what was previously budgeted. it is therefore a question of assessing the accounting validity of a document. from this point of view we have little to comment on. as regards the political considerations underlying the role of this institution in the context of an integration process based on values which we do not share, we cannot but attach our deeply critical point of view. this process of integration, of which this body or institution is an integral part, represents today a factor of enormous social backwardness and a factor which accentuates economic, social and territorial inequalities.
‒ money market funds (mmfs) provide short-term financing to financial institutions, companies or governments. by financing these entities, money market funds contribute to the financing of the european economy. on the demand side, mmfs are short-term cash management instruments that provide a high degree of liquidity, diversification and stability of the value of the invested capital, combined with a market-based return. it is with this dual perspective that the proposal in question corrects the regulation in several respects, improving its perception and clarifying some of its initial assumptions. that is why i voted in favour.
‒ money market funds (mmfs) are short-term cash management instruments that aim to provide a high degree of liquidity, diversification and stability of the value of the capital invested, combined with a market-based return. mmfs are used by a wide range of entities, from local authorities to large professional investors such as companies and pension funds, who seek to invest their excess cash for a short period. they are originally a way of evading the regulation of banks with which they compete in the intermediation of products with shorter maturities. in this sense, they are an element of the problem and not of the solution. what is desired is a sound banking system, under public control, which is actually at the service of business, households and the general development of society. the philosophy behind this report is that of insisting on the recipes which have been at the root of the present financial crisis.
‒ this regulation does not add anything new in terms of market regulation. asset-backed investment funds (amifs) have been a major factor in the instability and volatility of financial markets. the solution proposed by this regulation does not tackle the underlying problem, and i therefore voted against it.
‒ money market funds (mmfs) provide short-term financing to financial institutions, companies or governments. by financing these entities, money market funds contribute to the financing of the european economy. this regulation lays down rules on financial instruments eligible for investment by an mmf, their portfolios and valuation and the reporting requirements for an mmf established, managed or traded in the union. this resolution amends the commission proposal with regard to money market funds with net variable asset value (mmf vlac) considered to be too risky, by introducing instead money market funds with net low volatility assets (mmf vlabv) considered to be less risky because they are more structured, and which in turn should expire 5 years after they have been authorised. i voted in favour.
‒ fundamental rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union must be respected. this appears to be the case with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on money market funds, as regards consumer protection, freedom of establishment and the protection of personal data. i have therefore supported this report in the light of the proposal from the european commission and the opinion of the european economic and social committee.
‒ the objective of this proposal for a regulation is to create a regulatory framework for money market funds throughout the european union, with a view to ensuring greater protection for investors in money market funds and to enhancing financial stability by preventing the risk of contagion. it also aims to ensure that the liquidity of the fund is sufficient to meet investor redemption requests and to make the structure of the funds secure enough to withstand adverse market conditions. that measure introduces uniform requirements on the scope of the eligible instruments, diversification and credit exposure rules, interest rate and liquidity, with the aim of making funds more secure and efficient by mitigating the effects of systemic risk. i therefore agree with the need to establish rules on the operation of money market funds so that, in the interests of the integrity and stability of the internal market, we can guarantee the proper functioning of the short-term financing market for financial institutions, governments and companies issuing short-term debt.
‒ money market funds are short-term cash management instruments that aim to provide a high degree of liquidity, diversification and stability of the value of the capital invested, combined with a market-based return. mmfs are used by a wide range of entities, from local authorities to large professional investors such as companies and pension funds, who seek to invest their excess cash for a short period. they are originally a way of evading the regulation of banks with which they compete in the intermediation of products with shorter maturities. in this sense, they are an element of the problem and not of the solution. what is desired is a sound banking system, under public control, which is actually at the service of business, communities and the general development of society. the bet on these monetary funds means insisting on the revenues that have been the basis of the current financial crisis.
‒ money market funds are short-term cash management instruments that aim to provide a high degree of liquidity, diversification and stability of the value of the capital invested, combined with a market-based return. mmfs are used by a wide range of entities, from local authorities to large professional investors such as companies and pension funds, who seek to invest their excess cash for a short period. they are, by their very nature, a way of evading the regulation of the banks with which they compete in the intermediation of products with shorter maturities. in this sense they are an element of the problem and not of the solution. what is desired is a sound banking system, under public control, which is actually at the service of business, communities and the general development of society. to bet on these monetary funds is to insist on the revenues that have been the basis of the current financial crisis. we voted against it.
‒ during the period of application of the regulation on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or by other specific union import rules, the commission identified certain errors which needed to be corrected. in order to incorporate some substantive changes, it was considered necessary to convert the codification into a recast, and some amendments were proposed with the aim of clarifying the proposal and ensuring greater legal certainty and coherence.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting of 10 july 2014, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying and recasting council regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific community import rules. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a simple codification of the existing act without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the content of these proposals for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or by other specific union import rules consists mainly of technical corrections. i therefore vote in favour of the report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ this proposal, which is of an eminently technical nature, deserves my vote in favour, since it seeks to codify and reformat regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or conventions or by other specific import rules of the union. the aim is to bring the decision-making procedures on commercial policy into line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts which follows the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this recast sets annual quantitative limits for imports of textile products from third countries with which the eu has no bilateral agreement, protocol or arrangement (currently only belarus and north korea). surveillance and protection measures are also introduced by the european union and it is allowed to impose surveillance measures on other third countries whose imported textile products cause serious damage to eu production.
in writing. regulation (eec) no 3030/93 concerns the common rules applicable to imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded agreements, protocols or other bilateral arrangements. in recent years, the eu has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products with russia and serbia. with the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, regulation no 3030/93 lost its main purpose. in addition, this regulation was also used to impose quantitative limits on certain textile products originating in china and, where appropriate, to use the transitional safeguard mechanism specific to china. this safeguard mechanism expired on 11 december 2013. the purpose of this report is to repeal regulation (eec) no 3030/93, which, in view of the above, no longer makes sense.
‒ this is the first budgetary procedure carried out in full in the new legislature and the third procedure of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the guidelines adopted focus on strengthening the capacity of parliamentary committees to scrutinise the executive, in particular with regard to delegated acts, investments in the field of security in parliament's buildings and cybersecurity, and support for members, in particular with regard to parliamentary assistance.
‒ this report, which advocates savings and the 'example' that the european parliament should set, proposes a budget with cuts in areas essential to the political work of elected members. the commission has also proposed that the council and the european parliament adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. in other words, they are increasingly trying to make the work of the european parliament more and more technical and less political. services such as translation and interpretation may deteriorate further and further challenge the principle of multilingualism (again: cuts approved by ps, psd and cds). we agree that it is important to reduce excessive and disproportionate spending in the european parliament. but this cannot be a pretext for laying off workers, creating precarious employment or attacking multilingualism. we supported amendments to ensure the protection of translation and interpretation services so as to ensure proper working conditions for all members.
‒ this report is a document which will serve as the basis for the commission's proposal for the budget for the coming year, 2016. i am in favour of this report because it presents a budget which ensures the proper functioning of the european parliament, without forgetting the context of budgetary consolidation required of the member states. a budget which ensures that sufficient resources are available and that priorities can be adjusted at the end of the year if necessary. i think it is important to strengthen the security of parliament's buildings and cybersecurity. i would like to reiterate the need to strike a balance between accredited parliamentary assistants and local assistants. as far as parliamentary questions are concerned, i think it is important that they be confined to what is laid down in parliament's rules of procedure. i believe that we should not put multilingualism in question but at the same time we should make savings wherever possible. it is necessary to clarify the general expenditure allowance through the provision of accounts.
in writing. this resolution concerns the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2016, constituting the first budgetary procedure to be completed in its entirety in the new legislature and the third procedure of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau approved the 2016 budget guidelines proposed by the secretary-general. the guidelines focus on strengthening the capacity of parliamentary committees to scrutinise the executive, in particular with regard to delegated acts, investments in the field of security in parliament's buildings and cybersecurity, and support for members, in particular with regard to parliamentary assistance. the total increase in current expenditure in parliament's budget for 2016 compared to 2015 should therefore not exceed 1,6%, and the level of expenditure necessary in 2016 to enhance security in the european parliament's buildings and cybersecurity in brussels will be set at a maximum amount of eur 15 000 000. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, welcoming the good cooperation between the bureau of the european parliament and the committee on budgets during the budgetary procedure.
‒ this report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2016 is the first estimate made by the members of the european parliament on the budget for the coming year. this report sets out the basic figures to be used in future procedures between the bureau and the committee on budgets for the implementation of the estimated budget of the european parliament, which will be adopted next autumn as part of the general budget of the union. i consider the compromise reached between the bureau of the european parliament and my colleagues in the committee on budgets, which provides for an increase of 1.6% over the 2015 budget, to be quite appropriate, fair and balanced, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
the committee of the regions has also called for the introduction of a european standardisation body for the management of the financial markets, which would be a good instrument for the development of the internal market. this is nothing but a serious attack on the right to information and access to it by members and those who elected this parliament. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline measures, in particular the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline measures. while we agree that it is important to reduce excessive and disproportionate spending in the european parliament, we believe it is important to ensure that such 'savings' are not made at the expense of workers being laid off, job insecurity or principles such as multilingualism. we support amendments precisely to ensure that translation and interpretation services are maintained by providing access to information for all in all the official languages of the eu, but we reject the 5% cut in staff.
‒ once again we have a report which, while advocating savings and the example that the european parliament should set, proposes a budget with some cuts in areas essential to the political work of elected members. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to information for citizens and businesses, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to information for citizens and businesses. this is nothing but a serious attack on the right to information and access to it by members and those who elected this parliament. we agree that it is important to reduce excessive and disproportionate spending in the european parliament, but it is important to ensure that such 'savings' are not made at the expense of redundancies, job insecurity or principles such as multilingualism. the report's defence of this principle is hypocritical to say the least, since it ignores the limitations and shortcomings that exist today and defends cuts in the area of translation and interpretation. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ on average, the commission identifies around €500 million a year in potential fraud, although there are good reasons to estimate that this figure could be as high as €3 billion, coupled with a low prosecution rate. the need and urgency for a european public prosecutor's office is unequivocal. but i am not unaware, as the rapporteur is, that a number of procedural, substantive and organisational questions still remain. it will certainly be a long and difficult process. but the interim report points out and builds on the resistance and inconsistencies with which the member states have been conducting this process. i can therefore only fully endorse a general approach which sets out the conditions for parliament's approval.
‒ the european public prosecutor's office would have the powers to investigate, prosecute and bring to trial in the courts of the member states crimes affecting the eu budget. these frauds harm the taxpayers of all member states, as they contribute to the union budget. the future european public prosecutor's office should have competence in criminal matters relating to fraud affecting the financial interests of the union. every year, around €500 million in eu expenditure and revenue is lost due to possible fraud. the percentage of charges is low - approximately 31% in eight years, from 2006 to 2013 - when compared with the number of judicial recommendations from the european anti-fraud office (olaf) to member states. the eppo's role is to provide legal advice and assistance to the european public prosecutor's office.
‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in creating a european area of criminal justice with competence in the fight against fraud. that is, this is another step in the usurpation of sovereignty from the states, in an area where the fulcrum of that same sovereignty lies - the area of justice. we're against it. we are against a justice system which serves the interests of dominants and leads the process of integration. the recent examples of fraud and tax evasion, with criminals on the loose and those who have disclosed the scandals brought to justice and facing prison sentences and hefty fines, show just what kind of justice we are talking about.
‒ the data collected and analysed by the commission have led to the identification of suspected fraud against the financial interests of the union amounting to an average of around eur 500 million per year, although there are good reasons to believe that an annual value of approximately eur 3 billion may be involved. an innovative approach to the investigation, prosecution and judicial prosecution of perpetrators of fraud affecting the financial interests of the union is therefore essential. this resolution endorses the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office, whose mission should be to carry out investigations and prosecutions by a single, independent body at european level in respect of cases of fraud involving eu funds, and to increase the number of prosecutions, the recovery of eu funds and the confidence of european taxpayers. the european ombudsman has also been consulted on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, which will be responsible for the implementation of the european public prosecutor's office's legal advice. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ having regard to the resolution of 12 march 2014, i welcome the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. i believe that the european public prosecutor's office will be important in combating crimes which constitute a fraud against the financial interests of the european union and, consequently, the interests of its citizens. i welcome the council's proposal to propose that the future activity of the european public prosecutor's office be reflected in an annual report, with a view to ensuring a proper evaluation of its activity.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which arises in the context of the discussions between the council, the member states and the commission on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, as provided for in article 86 tfeu. in this regard, the european parliament decided, by adopting this report by 71% of the votes cast (487), [reaffirming] the content of its previous interim report, adopted in the framework of its resolution of 12/03/2014, the content of which it intends to complete and update. the main purpose of this report was to demonstrate once again the european parliament's support for the commission's proposal (after the 'yellow card' from the national parliaments), to express its proposals in the light of new developments in the council and to express its willingness to be involved in the discussions currently under way. recalling that this new body will have jurisdiction to investigate and prosecute offences which constitute fraud against the financial interests of the union (estimated at at least eur 500 million/year), i leave only two concerns: 1. the importance of articulating and clarifying the functions of the future european public prosecutor's office with eurojust, olaf and its relations with europol; 2. the non-overlapping of the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor's office and national authorities (i.e. clear definition of functions/competences).
‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in creating a european area of criminal justice with competence in the fight against fraud. in other words, this is another step in the integration of a justice which is the justice of capital, of the interests of the large multinationals which are the real engine of the current process of european integration. the recent examples of fraud and tax evasion, with criminals on the loose and those who have disclosed the scandals brought to justice and facing prison sentences and hefty fines, show just what kind of justice we are talking about.
‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in creating a european area of criminal justice with competence in the fight against fraud. in other words, this is another step in the integration of a justice system which is the justice of capital, of the interests of the large multinationals which are the real driving force behind the current process of european integration, by taking away sovereignty from national judicial systems. the recent examples of fraud and tax evasion, with criminals on the loose and those who have disclosed the scandals brought to justice and facing prison sentences and hefty fines, show just what kind of justice we are talking about. we voted against it.
mr president, the terrorist violence of groups like al-shabaab in kenya is unacceptable. we believe that there is no counter-terrorism strategy based on racist and xenophobic assumptions and that the european union, we have to say, has its share of responsibility in creating the problem. the western military interventions in many countries in the horn of africa have contributed to the radicalization of these groups, and instead of reinforcing them, these interventions must be abandoned, as we have argued in the alternative resolution tabled by our group. the european union's relationship with kenya and all african countries must be based on the principles of non-interference and respect for sovereignty, and the european union must replace its free trade agreements with other strategies that actually benefit the interest of cooperation with these african countries. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt.
mr president, the appalling massacre at garissa university does not merely deserve our heartfelt solidarity with the victims and the kenyan people. it proves that al-shabaab terrorism is running rampant, unpunished, and seeking to escalate conflicts and infect more countries in east africa. the european union must use its efforts to encourage the kenyan government and others in the region to shoulder their responsibilities in the fight against terrorism and sectarianism, by using all means to combat it, including development policies that effectively benefit their peoples. the heinous attack at garissa university must prompt a change of attitude, both in kenya and in the region, and on the part of the international community. freedom of religion and the right to education are part of the fundamental universal values of a society which calls itself democratic. kenya, with the support of the european union and the african union, must tackle the root causes of the sectarian problems that have helped give space to al-shabaab terrorists, tragically taking the lives of these 147 students and many others in the region. it must be a priority for the european union, the african union and kenya to tackle the sources of terrorist financing.
madam president, whenever fear is wanted, what happens is the destruction of memory, the memory of heritage, culture and civilization. the memory of a people, the memory of mankind. hatra didn't stand up to terrorism, and neither did the mosul museum. books were burned, art was sold for guns. but they can't kill what unites us as a world, the culture, the humanity that's in us. always, but whenever you want to silence freedom, what you do is kill art, culture and heritage. and we are made poorer by the destruction of our history in iraq and syria. the destruction and looting of this heritage is, in fact, a war crime. these criminals must and must be called to account for this destruction. but also those who bought and helped finance these terrorists must be brought to justice. it is criminal who sells and who buys, even in europe. i wonder how europe hopes to stop this buying complicity.
madam president, the destruction of the cultural heritage of mankind in iraq, syria, libya and mali by the barbarism of terrorist groups such as daesh constitutes a war crime and a crime against humanity. it is therefore alarming that the international community has not yet organized itself to stop the daesh terrorists. it is alarming that the european union itself is not able to make the difference in stopping the criminals of daesh in the countries where they operate, not even in iraq, where some member states are involved in military assistance to the kurdish forces and others fighting them. the european union is not coordinating with each other, either in military terms or in humanitarian aid, or even in supporting the victims, including yazidi, christian and other minority women and children who have escaped the criminals of daesh. the terrorists' design is to erase traces of millennia-old pre-islamic cultures in the middle east. if european leaders persist in autistic dis-coordination, let us prepare to pay the price in europe as well, with the rise of terrorist activity and more bigotry and intolerance and radicalization in our societies.
the european union must lead by example if it is to live up to its responsibilities and values. and those who lead by example can't sit around and wait to see what others do. leading by example means committing to 0.7% for development aid, but it also means committing to a timetable that allows us to reach that target not in the distant future but by 2020. that is the proposal i made in my report to the committee on development, which was adopted by a large majority, and i hope that the commission, the council and the member states will listen to the european parliament. this morning, commission president juncker came here to say that the response to the mediterranean crisis is not enough, because we need to increase development aid. for what is at stake is also whether this is to be taken seriously. because if we are to take it seriously, then the commission, the council and the european union must make a concrete commitment to the financing of official development aid. that is what is at stake and it is at stake now, before the addis ababa conference even begins.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president hoyer, the european fund for strategic investments, the efsi, or the juncker fund, is a positive effort to revive investment in europe, as the socialist group has called for. but it is important to be clear that if parliament accepts, as envisaged, that the european budget provides a guarantee of eur 16 billion for the efsi, this parliament, we, will want to have a very serious say both in governance and in the definition of investment policies. we will not waive that right. i regret, however, that in the week when parliament and the council were starting the negotiations on the efsi, the eib announced the first eur 300 million of project finance, already using the efsi window in advance. are we negotiating something that already exists? of course the eib can take the risk of these projects, but my perplexity is increased by the announcement made by the president of the eib that the projects now approved will go ahead anyway, even if the efsi guarantee is not approved. but if these are projects for which the eib can take the risk alone, why spend efsi support on them? so i ask, what assurance does this parliament have that the efsi will meet and execute in accordance with the strategic objectives we are setting? will you fulfill your mission of additionality? or will it use the efsi only to strengthen its capacity to maintain the maximum triple a rating as it has been doing so far? the eib, it is important to recognize, is a key partner for boosting investment, particularly during the crisis. however, it fell far short of what could be done, without any clear counter-cyclical role against the sharp fall in investment in europe, particularly in the most fragile countries. and a final note so you don't compare 2013 to 2012. the important thing is to compare 2007 to 2012 and you see a sharp drop in investment.
madam president, first of all i would like to greet and congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague paolo de castro. the theme of the milan world's fair is food security at a time when 870 million people in the world are undernourished. the target set at the 1996 world food summit to reduce the number of hungry people by 2015 remains largely out of reach. the expo in milan better be alerted to this. along with hunger and malnutrition, food waste and obesity are on the rise. we produce more food than we need, and at the same time we contribute to the degradation of the environment. this diachronicity is at the root of social conflict and injustice. it is urgent to embrace the paradigm shift. investments must be made in fishing and farming practices that allow the preservation of natural resources for future generations. food security for all also means building local and regional livelihood capacities and contributing to a better distribution of resources and production on a global scale.
‒ alcohol abuse is the second largest cause of lifestyle-related disease in some member states, representing a risk factor in more than 60 chronic diseases. in addition, a quarter of all road accidents may be related to drunk driving. it is therefore essential that the european union has a common strategy in this area to reduce the harm caused by alcohol and alcohol dependence and to support moderate and responsible consumption. although the competent authorities in each member state are better placed to develop individual policies adapted to their realities, as consumption patterns vary across social, cultural, geographical and economic boundaries, i believe that close cooperation between the member states and the european commission is essential in tackling this transnational problem. there is a need to organise education campaigns for the general public and for the most vulnerable groups such as pregnant women and minors, to regulate the marketing of alcoholic beverages, to provide for strict labelling that is easily perceived by consumers, and to set quantifiable policy targets to monitor progress. for these reasons, i support this resolution.
‒ the eu is the world's largest region for alcohol consumption double the world average, with 10.2 litres of pure alcohol per capita in 2010, according to a report by the world health organisation. the social costs of alcohol in the eu have been estimated at over €155 billion. harmful alcohol consumption remains the third leading cause of death and preventable disease in europe and a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases, including cancer, heart disease and liver disease. alcohol abuse is also associated with obesity, a major public health problem and the fourth largest cause of preventable disease in europe. it is therefore important to understand what proposals the commission has to make on this matter.
‒ alcohol consumption remains one of the leading causes of death in europe and is associated with a range of preventable diseases. in 2006, the european strategy to support member states in minimising the harmful effects of alcohol was presented. this strategy has identified priorities which are largely unfulfilled. during the life of this strategy, the crisis and the policies of social devastation implemented in its name not only gave rise to new situations of dependency and overconsumption, but also disrupted the necessary response capacity of public health services at various levels in several member states. the resolution calls for concrete measures for the new strategy, including the preparation of a report to assess the need for the inclusion of alcoholic beverages in the labelling regulation providing for information on ingredients and their nutritional content, adding the need for preventive labelling for pregnant women. it also calls on the member states to strengthen their legislation in this area. the member states are also called upon to take responsibility for this matter, and attention is drawn to the need to implement policies and treatments in national health systems that help and reduce alcoholism problems. we are not going to vote for the report.
in writing. ‒ an alcohol strategy should focus on alcohol abuse and misuse. we must not forget that in some member states alcohol abuse is the second most important cause of lifestyle-related illness and that alcohol dependence is a risk factor for chronic diseases. i voted in favour of the need for more campaigns targeting the most vulnerable, namely young people and pregnant women. i believe that a thorough analysis by the european commission is needed as regards the possible integration of the nutritional content of beverages. we must, of course, provide the consumer with clear and true information, but with regard to its applicability. finally, i would point out that public support and promotion of wine regions must continue because of their importance for so-called wine tourism. we must support awareness-raising and information campaigns to the public, addressing the harmful effects of excessive consumption.
in writing. ‒ alcohol abuse is the second largest cause of lifestyle-related disease in some member states and alcohol dependence is a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases, such as alcoholism. this resolution considers that the eu alcohol strategy has been successful in supporting member states' measures to reduce the harm caused by alcohol abuse, in particular through the exchange of best practice in areas such as the protection of young people. the commission also urges the immediate start of work on the new eu alcohol strategy, which is based on the objectives of reducing health and safety and socioeconomic problems caused by alcohol. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment and for the development of a european information system for the protection of the environment. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ i support a policy aimed at reducing alcohol consumption and all the social and health harm it causes. however, i have some reservations when it is said that 'public funds should under no circumstances be used to promote alcohol consumption', since, particularly in the economies of southern europe, this may be a principle used to prevent support for promotional campaigns and internationalisation of products such as port wine or madeira wine, to name just a few.
‒ for the four orders of reasons briefly described in the oral question to the commission: 1) harmful alcohol consumption remains the third leading cause of death and preventable disease in europe; 2) alcohol abuse is also associated with obesity (the fourth leading cause of preventable diseases in europe); 3) alcohol abuse and dependence are also associated with other social problems, such as high levels of absenteeism from work, family breakdown and violence; 4) europe has the highest rate of alcohol consumption in the world. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which was signed by the seven groups in this house, and which calls on the commission and the member states to draw up a (new) strategy for responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages, proposing very specific measures on labelling, the promotion of education and/or prevention, legislation on marketing and on consumption by pregnant women. with this resolution, we also stated that the new eu strategy should not set new objectives, but should support those already agreed under the who european action plan to reduce harmful alcohol consumption in the period 2012-2020.
‒ alcohol consumption remains the third leading cause of death in europe from a range of preventable diseases. it's also a risk factor for over 60 other chronic diseases. furthermore, problems associated with excessive drinking are linked to a number of social problems. europe has the highest rate of alcohol consumption in the world. the aim of both the oral question and this resolution is to obtain more information on this subject. furthermore, it requests clarification as to why a new separate report on the implementation of the requirements for the provision of information on the ingredients of alcoholic beverages and nutritional information on those beverages, which should have been submitted in december 2014, has not yet been published.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy because, while recognising the importance of differences in consumption patterns between member states and the cultural aspects of responsible drinking, its focus is on the concern about limiting the intake of alcoholic beverages by minors and individuals suffering from serious disorders, chronic diseases or correlated dependencies. in order to reduce the harm caused by alcohol, to ensure the lasting impact of the results achieved to date and to continue to support national governments in tackling the long-term harm caused by alcohol, the european commission is called upon to start work immediately on a new alcohol strategy for 2016-2022, which i clearly agree with. finally, it called on the commission and the member states to carry out awareness-raising campaigns and to invest in education as a means of preventing the harmful effects on health and society of alcohol consumption, while promoting responsible and moderate consumption of alcoholic beverages.
the resolution calls for concrete measures for the new strategy, including the preparation of a report to assess the need for the inclusion of alcoholic beverages in the labelling regulation providing for information on ingredients and their nutritional content, adding the need for preventive labelling for pregnant women. the member states are also called upon to strengthen their legislation in this area. the member states are also called upon to take responsibility for this matter, and attention is drawn to the need to implement policies and treatments in the national health systems that help and reduce alcoholism problems. we are not going to vote for the report.
‒ the collapse of rana plaza, an eight-storey building in savar, on the outskirts of dhaka, which housed several garment factories, killed more than 1100 people and injured more than 2500, making it the worst industrial disaster in bangladesh. factory fires, building collapses and other incidents related to health and safety issues at the workplace are not limited to the garment sector in bangladesh, but are very concerning issues in other developing and least developed countries. in addition to the need to comply with international standards regarding safety and conditions for workers, it is important that the us$ 3 million available for compensation be distributed without further delay.
‒ the tragedy in bangladesh has brought to light a long-known problem: that of inhuman working conditions and extreme exploitation in the production chain of the multinationals supplying the european market. a few thousand more lives have been taken on the altar of global capitalism. the country is the world's second largest textile producer. almost 90% of production is destined for europe, the usa and canada. the dhaka region has been reshaped by the proliferation of factory units operating in unsanitary spaces, outsourced, with miserable wages of 30 euros/month and denied the most basic labour rights. there are about 100,000 factories in the capital region alone. two years after the rana plaza tragedy, action is still lagging behind against the companies that profit from the persistence of this situation. mechanisms to deal with imports of products of this origin are still lagging behind. the eu is not interested in making any real change to the situation and this resolution is, in fact, a demonstration of that.
in writing. ‒ on 24 april 2013, the rana plaza, an eight-storey building in savar, on the outskirts of dhaka, where several garment factories were located, collapsed, killing more than 1100 people and injuring more than 2500. as a result of these tragic events and with public protests and calls for action by the european parliament, the eu, in collaboration with the government of bangladesh and the world labour organisation, launched on 8 july 2013 the 'pact for the continuous improvement of labour rights and factory safety in the knitting and knitwear industry in bangladesh' (the sustainability pact), under which bangladesh committed to take action to improve labour standards and working conditions in the country's garment industry. this resolution commemorates the victims on the second anniversary of the tragedy and takes note of the conclusions of the first evaluation of the pact in october 2014. it therefore notes good progress by the bangladeshi authorities and recognises the contribution of the pact to improving health and safety in factories and working conditions in the garment industry. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ although two years have passed, the rana plaza tragedy is still very much alive in our memories, if not one of the most devastating industrial disasters ever. the implementation of an effective workplace safety system is imperative and situations like this could have been avoided. it is important that the government of bangladesh takes an active stance in implementing safety measures at work. it is important to focus on safety training at work and it is even more important to ensure that the guidelines are implemented in the workplace.
in writing. - as the epp's spokesperson for this debate, i welcome the fact that the 7 political groups in this parliament have managed to draft a single resolution on these tragic events, which was approved by 97% of the votes cast. this demonstrates our commitment and our unity in defending and promoting decent, fair and properly legislated working conditions on a global scale. two years after this terrible tragedy, we remember that there are still compensation payments to be made to the victims and their families and that, despite much that has been done to improve the working conditions and safety of factory buildings in this country, there is still much to be done. i therefore stress the absolute need for future monitoring of the implementation of the ongoing measures (the sustainability compact, the agreement, the alliance and the better work programme) by the international community (notably the ilo, the eu, the us, the business and trade union community) and for support to the government of bangladesh so that these measures (and other announced ones, such as the amendment of the labour law) are effectively implemented on the ground, intensified (e.g. increased number of inspections, improvement of labour rights in the export free zones ‒ efz) and deepened (e.g. by hiring more labour inspectors).
in writing. ‒ on april 24, 2013, 1,134 people died and hundreds were injured in the rana plaza building collapse in savar, bangladesh. later, 112 people lost their lives in the tazreen factory fire in ashulia district of dhaka, bangladesh and on 24 november 2012, another 289 people lost their lives in a fire in karachi, pakistan in september 2012. they are striking examples of a wider list. this is a poignant demonstration of what the most savage capitalism is capable of. bangladesh's garment industry developed in just a few decades to become the second largest in the world, thanks to large multinational chains that saw it as a way to increase the exploitation of the workforce and increase their profits. indeed, it is no coincidence that bangladesh benefits from duty-free and eu quota-free access to the eu market for all its products included in the 'everything but arms' initiative, which covers 55% of bangladesh's exports, largely textiles/clothing.
‒ the european parliament has today spoken out against the tragedy in bangladesh two years ago, in which more than 1100 people, mostly women, lost their lives. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the responsibility of companies is so slight that it is ignored in a cruel cynicism, pushing responsibility onto the government of that country, which is inevitably conditioned by the economic and social impositions that are the preserve of the big monopolies. in addition to this deplorable hypocrisy, it is taking the opportunity to continue its strategy of interfering with the free will of the people, weaving thoughts and giving indications as to the direction in which the labour and trade union framework in that country should be built, as well as reinforcing the role of the high representative as part of a foreign policy which we do not recognise in the eu. for these reasons, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the mediterranean, the sea of antiquity, has become a vast liquid cemetery. the sea of civilization is now the sea of death. almost every day, human beings die trying to reach europe. a little over a week ago, the tragedy of the death of 700 people again shook our daily lives. after a joint meeting of the home and foreign ministers, the commissioner responsible for migration, home affairs and citizenship presented a ten-point plan to deal with this tremendous humanitarian crisis. the plan aims to strengthen joint action by member states, to improve reception and treatment conditions for displaced persons and to cooperate with third countries considered to be essential for controlling these migratory flows. it is imperative that we increase our capacity to patrol the waters to try to prevent disasters and to destroy human trafficking networks. it is important that we provide dignified conditions for those who reach our shores. but it is crucial that we commit ourselves to contributing to the solution of the problems facing the middle east and africa. those who are so desperate to reach europe just want to leave behind the fear. it is up to europe to fight it.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, we are once again faced with a resolution following a tragedy in the mediterranean. the resolution also highlights once again the failure of the member states to respond to the humanitarian emergency facing europe. saving lives is a priority, and to do that, we need more solidarity. we need frontex to have sufficient means to carry out effective search and rescue operations, thus implementing regulation no 656/2014. on the other hand, the resolution also looks at the underlying problem. and here the european council has failed again. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat illegal immigration and to help bring about peace in war-torn areas, particularly syria, to end the power vacuum in libya, to defeat the self-styled islamic state, to combat human trafficking effectively and to invest more in cooperation and development. now is the time for action!
‒ this resolution deplores the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and recalls that the eu and its member states have responsibilities and need to take action to prevent future deaths at sea. financial and human resources should therefore be allocated to mandatory catch and rescue operations under the coordination of frontex. the ep must therefore take a strong stand and it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this joint resolution as a step towards a less tragic future for immigrants seeking a better life.
‒ more than 1600 refugees and migrants have died in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year, according to data from the un high commissioner for refugees. the european parliament has called on the eu to shoulder its share of responsibility and solidarity towards those member states which host the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers, both in absolute and in proportional terms. search and rescue obligations must be 'effectively fulfilled' and 'properly financed' in the medium and long term. safe and legal pathways for asylum seekers to enter the eu, cooperation with third countries of transit and origin, the return of irregular migrants and the fight against smugglers and traffickers are other aspects that cannot be neglected.
in the same time as thousands of lives are being lost in the mediterranean, in the mass exodus from the countries of africa and the middle east, fleeing war, hunger and extreme poverty, the european council, concerned above all with media repercussions, rather than finding effective solutions, is deepening the com munitization of its immigration policy and the european neighbourhood policy - a line ratified by the majority of parliament today - with this resolution. this resolution points the way to the strengthening of the policies of aggression, interference and support for the destabilisation of the countries in those regions, promoting war and extremist movements, which increase the migratory pressure. we condemn the repressive and criminalising treatment of refugees by the eu, which denies adequate integration policies, and the reinforcement of the vision of a fortress europe closed to migration flows, which contributes to the maintenance of human trafficking networks. that is the view expressed in this resolution and that is why we voted against it.
in writing. - the numbers are alarming. in the first few months of this year alone, 35,000 people have managed to reach the old continent by sea, but more than 2,000 have lost their lives. since 2000, we're talking about 22,000 people, according to the world organization for migration. a true humanitarian disaster. last week, 6,700 people tried their luck. and we could go on. we must respond to this humanitarian emergency in the short term by supporting operations such as mare nostrum and operation triton. in the long run, we have to support better regulation in terms of legal immigration. we must fight against illegality and punish human traffickers. we must contribute to peace in the war-torn territories, with particular reference to syria and libya. the union and the international community must defeat the self-styled islamic state. we must invest more in cooperation and development. europe must support the good initiatives of the member states. we cannot leave countries like italy, malta and greece to their fate we have to be united.
‒ this resolution aims to respond to the recent events in the mediterranean, with the disappearance of 700 migrants after the sinking of the fishing vessel on which they were travelling, and to the subsequent european council conclusions of 23 april 2015. globally, the eu faces the challenge of the increasing proportion of people trying to cross the mediterranean, exploited by smugglers and traffickers, to escape conflict or persecution in syria, iraq, eritrea, somalia and libya. the resolution therefore reiterates the need for the eu and its member states to make every effort to prevent more lives being lost at sea by making available the necessary resources to ensure that search and rescue obligations are effectively met. it also urged the eu to base its response on solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility, adopting a comprehensive european approach. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, because i agree with the call for closer coordination of eu and member state policies in tackling the root causes of migration.
‒ according to the international organisation for migration (iom), more than 1 500 people have died in the mediterranean sea since the beginning of the year. it is estimated that 23 918 migrants have reached the italian coast since 1 january 2015 and that, according to the greek authorities, 10 445 migrants were rescued by the greek coast guard in the aegean sea during the first quarter of 2015. the increase in people trying to cross the mediterranean to escape conflict or persecution in syria, iraq, eritrea, somalia and libya is worrying and is not a concern of this or that member state alone. it should be taken as a concern of the european union and all its member states. it's about lives. reinforcement and cooperation are imperative to prevent more lives being lost at sea. it is important that the european union, in concert with the other member states, should join forces to put an end to this situation.
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of this year, more than 1500 people have tragically lost their lives in the mediterranean sea, according to data from the international organisation for migration. in the last 15 years, 22,000 have died, numbers that could surpass 30,000 by the end of the year. but more than talking about numbers, we're talking about people, and each of these numbers is a human life that has been lost - incomprehensibly, unfairly! the european union cannot allow the mediterranean sea to become a vast black cemetery. urgent action is therefore needed by the eu and our member states to enable us, on the one hand, to provide the humanitarian aid that is needed and to provide more substantial financial support for search and rescue operations and, on the other hand, to make all the efforts necessary to combat the terrible scourges of human trafficking and criminal networks of 'smugglers'. i therefore support the extension of the mandate of operation triton beyond 30 nautical miles of the italian coast and a european humanitarian rescue operation capable of operating on the high seas, obviously with the contribution of all member states, in logistical and human resources.
in writing. ‒ over the past two weeks, more than a thousand migrants have died, which means more than 30 000 potential deaths in the mediterranean sea this year, according to estimates by the international organisation for migration, once again underlining the need to do everything possible to save lives in danger and the need for member states to respect their international obligations in the field of maritime rescue. in this utterly hypocritical discourse of the european union, the blatant responsibilities of the eu states in the disintegration of vast regions of north africa, with large-scale armed interventions - as was the case in iraq, libya and syria - are brazenly omitted, to name just the most recent examples. moreover, the capitalist powers, through their multinational companies, continue to encourage corruption, thus maintaining their privileges and the immense plunder of the wealth of these countries, whose development has been delayed for too long, and fuelling an increasing flow of emigration.
in the same breath as thousands of lives are being lost in the mediterranean, in the mass exodus from the countries of africa and the middle east, fleeing war, hunger and extreme poverty, the european council, in an act of media folklore, beyond finding effective solutions, deepens the communitarianisation of its immigration policy and the european neighbourhood policy, today ratified in the ep by its right-wing majority. today, the majority of the ep has reinforced these policies of aggression, interference and support and funding for the destabilisation of the countries in those regions, promoting war and extremist movements, which are the result of these migratory flows. we condemn the repressive and criminalising treatment that the eu imposes on refugees, denying them adequate integration policies, and the reinforcement of the vision of a 'fortress europe' closed to migration flows, helping to keep human trafficking networks operating in the region. we condemn the european council's measures which, by failing to resolve the problem, perpetuate interference and aggression in african and middle eastern countries and reinforce the process of european militarisation, with express directives to the high representative to move immediately to intervention within the framework of european security and defence policy. we voted against it.
‒ the fundamental objective of the proposed amendments is to confirm the eu's real and deep commitment to the future of european integration in the countries and territories covered by this regulation, through the granting of unilateral trade preferences. in this context, such concessions, or their possible suspension, should be accepted as an impetus to accelerate the transition of the political and socioeconomic reforms highlighted in the 'growth pact', which are indispensable for the western balkan countries to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the acquis.
‒ stabilisation and association agreements with the western balkan countries are, as a rule, preceded by asymmetrical trade liberalisation. asymmetric trade liberalisation is provided for by council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 adopting exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the stabilisation and association process. this regulation shall apply until 31 december 2015. the amendments to this regulation are related to the following objectives:- extension of the period of application of the regulation until 31 december 2020,- introduction of the human rights clause, - possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina, as of 1 january 2016, because it has not accepted to adapt the trade concessions granted under the interim agreement in order to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, under the central european free trade agreement (cefta). in addition, taking into account that the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo was initialled in july 2014, this regulation will also cover kosovo.
‒ trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is liberalised through a series of stabilisation and association agreements (saas) and an interim agreement (ia) in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. kosovo and the whole region also benefit from autonomous trade measures (atm). these unilateral preferences allow unlimited access to the union with exemption from customs duties for most products. this resolution suggests three main amendments to regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 concerning these preferences. on the one hand, it introduces the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020, and the scheme has contributed to the increase of trade. it also includes the human rights clause in the csf regulation, allowing for the suspension of preferences in the event of serious and systematic violations of these principles by any of the beneficiary countries. finally, the proposal provides for the possible suspension of the csms for bosnia and herzegovina (bh) as from 1 january 2016, as it has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement to take account of preferential traditional trade between croatia and bh following the accession of croatia to the eu on 1 july 2013. i voted in favour.
‒ european policy towards the western balkan countries is defined in the framework of the stabilisation and association process, launched in may 1999. this proposal aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 adopting exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the stabilisation and association process. the amendments considered include the extension of the preferences for a further 5 years, the suspension of the trade preferences with regard to bosnia and herzegovina as from 01/01/2016 and the introduction of the so-called 'human rights clause'. all the western balkan cefta member countries have completed negotiations to amend their agreements with the european union. bosnia-herzegovina was missing, having recently agreed to sign and provisionally apply an agreement on the adjustment of trade concessions, and trade preferences have therefore been re-established for that country. i support this proposal, which calls on bosnia-herzegovina to adapt the interim preferential trade agreement with croatia and further calls on the parties to take account of their mutual interests in order to reach an agreement satisfactory to both eu member states and cefta members.
in writing. ‒ the amendments to this regulation are related to the following objectives: extension of the period of application of the regulation until 31 december 2020; introduction of the human rights clause; possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina, as of 1 january 2016, because it has not accepted to adapt the trade concessions granted under the interim agreement in order to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta). in addition, taking into account that the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo was initialled in july 2014, this regulation will also cover kosovo.
‒ stabilisation and association agreements with the western balkan countries are, as a rule, preceded by asymmetrical trade liberalisation. asymmetric trade liberalisation is provided for by council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 adopting exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the stabilisation and association process. this regulation shall apply until 31 december 2015. the amendments to this regulation are related to the following objectives:- extension of the period of application of the regulation until 31 december 2020,- introduction of the human rights clause, - possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina, as of 1 january 2016, because it has not accepted to adapt the trade concessions granted under the interim agreement in order to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, under the central european free trade agreement (cefta). in addition, taking into account that the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo was initialled in july 2014, this regulation will also cover kosovo. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in recent times we have been confronted with an exponential increase in the number of attacks on religious minorities, in particular christians, around the world. every day there are christians who are executed, beaten or arrested, especially in some parts of the arab world, by jihadist terrorists. in line with european values, all religious and ethnic minorities have the inalienable right to live in their traditional and historical homelands in dignity, equality and security. i therefore condemn the recent attacks on christian communities in several countries and support the international efforts to combat the actions of the islamic state. on the other hand, there is a need to increase humanitarian aid and international assistance to protect the lives of christians and other religious minorities in conflict zones and refugee camps. i support the need for the kenyan government to investigate and bring to justice all those responsible for the executions that have taken place on its territory.
‒ the al-shabaab attack in garissa killed 147 young and innocent university students and injured 79 others, violating the most basic human rights, particularly when people are killed because of their religion, beliefs or ethnic origin. the same terrorist group had previously carried out other attacks that killed hundreds of people, including somalia's ambassador to the united nations. appropriate measures must be taken to put an end to the constant violations of human rights and the persecution of christians.
the terrorist violence in kenya and the proliferation of terrorist groups such as al-shabaab are disturbing phenomena that must be combated. there is no effective counterterrorism strategy based on racist and xenophobic assumptions. the eu has a share of responsibility in the problem foreign military interventions in many countries in the horn of africa have promoted the radicalisation of these groups. the solution is not military, it is more war, interference and aggression. it is, on the contrary, a question of abandoning these policies, as we have advocated in our alternative resolution. relations between the eu and kenya, like relations with other african countries, must be based on non-interference, on respect for the sovereignty of each country. the eu must end its free trade agreements which only benefit the economic interests of western multinationals. the social problems at the heart of the problem can be mitigated by policies of genuine cooperation - support for education, health, the economy. and not with policies of exploitation of the weaker countries by the stronger ones.
in writing. ‒ in recent months, we have seen an exponential increase in the number of attacks on religious groups, including christians, around the world, with innocent people being executed, beaten and detained every day because of their religion or belief. the latest terrorist attack in garissa, kenya, which targeted young people in particular, is a threat to education and therefore to the future of the country in general. this resolution condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack by al-shabaab on 2 april 2015 in garissa, which killed 147 university students and injured 79. it also strongly condemns all violations of human rights and unequivocally rejects hate crimes, whether motivated by religion, belief or ethnicity. so, because i consider religious freedom to be a fundamental human right and because i condemn any kind of violence or discrimination on the basis of faith, i voted in favour.
in the first place, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carriage of goods by road. while i regret that we were unable to pass a more comprehensive joint motion, i would like to stress that the strong and unequivocal condemnation of this horrific massacre of 147 students at the university of garissa in kenya on 2 april by the somalia-based terrorist group al-shabaab (the latest in a series of atrocities committed against christians by this group) has united this house in one voice, and has also prompted calls for the commission and the member states to support kenya in its fight against extremism and social exclusion.
in the light of the recent events in kenya, the commission has decided to publish a report on the situation in the country, which is a report on the situation in the country and the situation in the world. regardless of ethical and religious motivations, the victims today are the people on whom the rich capitalist countries drop their "humanitarian" bombs, destroying millennial societies and indiscriminately killing men, women, children and the elderly. using the pretext of human rights, for which these countries claim to be the supreme judge, the so-called 'democratic' governments are opening the way for multinational companies, continuing the plunder and corruption, thus keeping the african continent under the paw of capital.
‒ the terrorist violence in kenya is unacceptable, as is the proliferation of terrorist groups such as al-shabaab. there is no counterterrorism strategy based on racist and xenophobic assumptions. the eu bears a large share of responsibility for the problem - western foreign military interventions in many countries in the horn of africa have promoted the radicalisation of these groups, so instead of being reinforced, they should be abandoned, as we advocated in our alternative resolution. the eu's relationship with kenya and all african countries must be based on the principle of non-interference, respect for sovereignty. the eu must end its free trade agreements which only benefit the economic interests of western multinationals. the social problems that are at the heart of the problem can be mitigated with policies of genuine cooperation between countries - support for education, health, the economy. and not with policies of exploitation of the weaker countries by the stronger ones.
‒ recently, numerous sites of archaeological, religious and cultural interest have been destroyed in iraq and syria by extremist groups linked mainly to the islamic state in iraq and syria, with the director-general of unesco defining such destruction as acts of 'cultural cleansing'. on the other hand, the illicit trade in cultural goods is currently the third most important illegal trade, after drug and arms trafficking, and is dominated by organised crime networks. i strongly condemn the intentional destruction of places of worship and of cultural and archaeological interest by the islamic state in syria and iraq. i agree with the need for the eu and the member states to implement security measures at the eu's external borders to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods. i support the need to include acts that deliberately damage or destroy on a large scale the cultural heritage of humanity in the category of crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ numerous sites of archaeological, religious and cultural interest in syria and iraq have recently been destroyed by extremist groups linked mainly to the islamic state, in systematic attacks on cultural heritage. the director-general of unesco calls it the "cultural cleansing". i strongly condemn the intentional destruction of places of worship and of cultural and archaeological interest, including through the deliberate persecution of individuals identified on the basis of their ethnic, religious or cultural origin, combined with deliberate attacks on their places of worship, memory and education.
in writing. the rome statute of the international criminal court, adopted on 17 july 1998, recognises as war crimes intentional attacks on, among others, buildings dedicated to religious worship, education and the arts, as well as historical monuments. in syria and iraq, numerous sites of archaeological, religious and cultural interest have recently been destroyed by extremist groups linked mainly to the islamic state (isil/daesh). these systematic attacks on cultural heritage have been defined by the director-general of unesco as cultural cleansing, signalling the cadence and correlation of these, a deliberate strategy that seeks to destroy cultural diversity through the deliberate persecution of individuals identified on the basis of their ethnic, religious or cultural origin. some of these acts of destruction of cultural heritage have therefore been considered, in certain circumstances, crimes against humanity. this resolution strongly condemns the intentional destruction of places of worship and of cultural and archaeological interest by isil in syria and iraq and calls on the eu and its member states to make every effort to combat the illicit trade in lost cultural objects from iraq and syria. it's the only way to avoid the risk of mis-funding isis. i voted in favour.
‒ the intentional destruction of places of worship and of cultural and archaeological interest by isil in syria and iraq should be the subject of the utmost condemnation and of deep consternation and concern. we are facing real terrorist acts, which aim not only to destroy the heritage and cultural identity of peoples, but also to use cultural objects to finance criminal activities, since the illicit trade in cultural goods is the third most important illegal trade, after drug and arms trafficking. i therefore voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution which seeks to draw attention to the urgent need to stop the smuggling and illegal trade of cultural goods from these territories (e.g. through increased controls at the external borders) and to develop an integrated policy of cooperation which urges member states to engage in awareness-raising campaigns together with the relevant international bodies for the protection of our cultural and heritage heritage, particularly in these conflict zones.
‒ the eu is deeply concerned that in syria, iraq and tunisia, numerous sites of archaeological, religious and cultural interest are being destroyed by extremist groups linked mainly to the islamic state in iraq and syria. according to unesco, the term 'cultural cleansing' indicates an intentional strategy that seeks to destroy cultural diversity through the deliberate persecution of individuals identified on the basis of their ethnic, religious or cultural origin, combined with deliberate attacks on their places of worship, memory and education. it is a pity that this is the same eu which is making a decisive contribution to arming and training the fanatical gangs which are now carrying out these barbaric attacks. as for destabilizing countries like libya, syria or iraq, these same gangs were liberation heroes who were going to impose democracy against regimes that no longer served the interests of the west. it's a shame! the eu, the united states and nato, which have lied to the people of europe and dragged their countries into this senseless war which has already killed millions of innocent people, should be in the dock.
the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of women and girls are protected in all eu countries, including in the countries of the former soviet union, and calls on the eu to take action to ensure that women and girls are protected in all eu countries.
‒ the increasing trend towards an authoritarian regime in the maldives, the repression of political opponents and the intimidation of the media and civil society, which may jeopardise the progress made in recent years in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the country, are worrying developments. the most basic basic rights of justice are also not being fully respected, as the trial of the former president of the maldives proves. the international community has expressed serious doubts about the verdict, insisting on their release and full respect for their rights, particularly in court, and respect for the national constitution and international obligations. the reintroduction of the death penalty is to be condemned and an immediate end to all forms of violence, including violence against peaceful protesters, must be ensured. the national authorities should focus their efforts on eliminating trafficking in human beings and on achieving stability, strengthening democracy and the rule of law, and ensuring full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ on 13 march 2015, mohamed nasheed, former president of the maldives, was sentenced to 13 years in prison on terrorism charges for the arrest in january 2012 of the then-president of the criminal court. the controversial trial failed to meet national and international standards in the field of justice, despite the call by the un and the eu for the judicial process against former president nasheed to be fair and transparent. this event is symptomatic of a set of violations of the rule of law, democracy and individual freedoms that have recently occurred in the maldives. the report we have just seen expresses its deep concern at the trends threatening the democratic regime in the maldives and deplores the irregularities in the trial of former president mohamed nasheed, insisting that he should be released immediately. therefore, should his conviction be subject to appeal, his rights should be fully respected in accordance with maldives' international obligations, its own constitution and all internationally recognised fair trial guarantees. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ reports of continued political pressure, intimidation of the media and civil society, and lack of independence and credibility of the judiciary in the maldives are raising serious concerns about the actual progress made over the past years in terms of advances in the defence of human rights, the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the circumstances surrounding the recent conviction of former president mohamed nasheed on terrorism charges and the end of the moratorium on the use of the death penalty raise serious doubts as to the true state of the rule of law in the maldives. it is therefore extremely important that the european union should follow the future developments in this country and, in the exercise of its external powers, help to re-establish the basis for a credible and fair political process, rooted in democracy, capable of ensuring the principles of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, which is why i voted in favour of this joint resolution.
in writing. the first democratically elected president of the republic of maldives, mohamed nasheed, was charged with terrorism and sentenced to 13 years in prison on friday, march 13, 2015. the un and the european union have serious doubts about the impartiality of the maldivian judicial system in this process, given that ngos consider it to be a way of ousting former president mohamed nasheed, elected in 2008. the eu denies the possibility of referendums and, when it cannot prevent them, does not recognise the result or repeats them until the result is in its interests. this eu deposes governments at will, using the blackmail of finance after having taken away the monetary sovereignty of the nation states. it is a matter of the european parliament's right to decide on the future of the community. this ngo-based eu now intends to give lessons to the world. this is unbelievable! what the eu should do is look in the mirror and recognize that democracy has long ceased to exist in the eu. let the people of each country decide their own future, without interference and without this deep arrogance of those who think they are in possession of reason.
‒ albania, unlike other candidate countries, has made great progress which should be an inspiration for the intensification of reform efforts in other candidate countries. the efforts to combat human trafficking, the promotion of human rights and the climate of religious tolerance and good inter-ethnic relations in the country are also to be commended. however, some problems and challenges remain which need to be addressed quickly and efficiently, such as the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, freedom of expression and media independence, and the fragmentation of the local administration system.
‒ albania has made remarkable progress in recent years on its path towards eu membership and has therefore been granted candidate country status. the opening of accession negotiations has become a driver for eu-related reforms in albania. i therefore welcome the reform efforts albania is making and express my support for the process of integration in albania. i also recognise that concrete measures and sustained political commitment are needed to put these measures into practice, to successfully address the challenges of consolidating the process of democratic transformation and to pursue eu-related reforms.
in writing. this motion for a resolution contains a broad set of considerations on the process of albania's integration into the eu. the assessment of the process here presented and the list of conditions put forward indicate the extent of the interference and loss of sovereignty imposed on countries and peoples in the process of eu accession, in particular in matters such as the economic organization of the state, the judiciary, the public administration, the requirement to align the positions of that country with those of the eu, particularly as regards foreign and border policy. we consider unacceptable the paternalistic attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
albania has made significant progress in recent years towards eu accession and was therefore granted candidate country status in june 2014. the opening of eu accession negotiations depends on the consistent adoption and effective implementation of sustainable reforms in the five key priorities, namely public administration reform, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime, and strengthening the protection of human rights. this resolution, while deploring the persistent shortcomings in the functioning of the judiciary and the high levels of corruption, congratulates albania on its accession to the eu and considers that this should be seen as an incentive to persevere in its reform efforts. it also expressed its continued support for the eu integration process in albania and recommended that the future meeting schedule of the eu-albania stabilisation and association parliamentary committee and the high level dialogue on key priorities be harmonised in order to strengthen parliamentary oversight of the eu accession process. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on albania, which reflects well the efforts that this country has made towards its european integration, as well demonstrated by its current status as a candidate country to the european union. however, as the report points out, there are still many areas where there is a need for greater and deeper intervention, such as judicial reform, the fight against drug trafficking and greater freedom of the press. however, i would also like to point out the progress made in promoting religious tolerance and good relations between the different ethnic groups in this country, as well as the excellent work done by the ombudsman, which are in themselves a sign of the constructive and proactive stance that albania intends to adopt on its path towards european integration.
in writing. ‒ regardless of the need to work on the basis of today's reality, which arises from only part of the countries being integrated into the eu, it is not possible to pass this debate without mentioning, on the one hand, the role of the eu in the yugoslav crisis and, in particular, the role of germany which, by fomenting croatian nationalism, fuelled a conflict still with wide open scars within europe and throughout the balkans, involving kosovo and albania. we also criticise the eu's expansionist policy, which under the guise of free trade seeks to conquer new markets and compensate for the weakness of domestic demand resulting from years of austerity policies.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of albania. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. we consider unacceptable the paternalistic attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite the new opportunity for bosnia and herzegovina to resume the reform process, improve its social and economic situation and move closer to the european union, some structural problems remain to be resolved. this resolution, in a coherent manner, calls on the bosnian authorities and leaders to refrain from using nationalist and divisive rhetoric, and to implement the economic and social structural reforms necessary to improve the lives of its citizens, based on respect for human rights, the principle of the rule of law and the principle of direct and fair universal suffrage. the fight against corruption and inefficiency in the judicial system should also be a priority, with concern being expressed at the persistently high number of disappeared persons and the lack of progress in this area. equally worrying is the fact that it remains a country of origin, transit and destination for trafficking in human beings. i agree that it is essential to promote an inclusive and tolerant society that protects the rights of minorities and vulnerable groups.
‒ the eu has been giving bosnia and herzegovina opportunities to resume the reform process, improve its social and economic situation and move closer to the european union. however, insufficient cooperation and coordination between bosnia and herzegovina's political leaders and all levels of administration, the absence of a common vision and political will, as well as ethnocentric attitudes, are seriously affecting the country's progress. i agree with the need to examine the country's application for membership, but the bosnian leaders will have to commit themselves to carrying out the institutional, economic and social reforms needed to improve the lives of citizens and to make significant progress in implementing the reform programme, in particular the pact for growth and jobs.
in writing. this motion for a resolution contains a broad set of considerations on the process of eu integration of bosnia and herzegovina. the assessment of the process here presented and the list of conditions put forward indicate the extent of the interference and loss of sovereignty imposed on countries and peoples in the eu accession process, in particular on issues such as the economic organization of the state, the internal and political organization of the country, the imposition of reforms such as the pact for growth and employment, the judiciary, the public administration, the requirement of alignment of the country's positions with those of the eu, in particular as regards foreign and border policy. we consider unacceptable the paternalistic attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, was signed on 16 june 2008. the eu has given bosnia and herzegovina a new opportunity based on a coordinated approach designed to help the country to resume the reform process, improve its social and economic situation and move closer to the union. this resolution strongly supports the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina and believes that the eu's enhanced engagement should focus, inter alia, on socioeconomic issues, the business environment, the institutional framework, the rule of law and governance, law enforcement policy, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, public administration reform, civil society and youth. it also called on the authorities to make the fight against corruption a top priority and noted the progress made in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. it also welcomes the written commitment to eu integration adopted by the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina, signed by the leaders of all political parties and supported by the parliament of bosnia and herzegovina on 23 february 2015. i voted in favour.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european union charter. however, what this report shows us is that there is still a long way to go, particularly as regards bosnia-herzegovina's need to make progress towards implementing the reform programme contained in the pact for growth and employment. i note that some progress has been made, particularly in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, but there are still areas such as gender equality, social protection and the environment where progress has been very limited. it is absolutely essential that this country is able to carry out a set of reforms that will allow it to curb corruption, guarantee freedom of the press and transform bosnia and herzegovina into an effective and functioning democratic state of law. as such, in their path to the eu, political priorities must invariably be the ability to implement the institutional, economic and social reforms that will improve the living conditions of citizens, businesses and the state itself, as well as the legislative framework for their activities.
‒ since the launch of the process of complete destabilisation and disintegration of yugoslavia, stabilisation and association agreements have been concluded with all the western balkan countries concerned, with the exception of bosnia-herzegovina and kosovo. in may 2014, negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo were concluded and the agreement was initialled in july 2014. apart from the need to work on the basis of today's reality, which arises from the fact that only part of the countries are integrated into the eu, it is not possible to pass this debate without mentioning, on the one hand, the role of the eu in the yugoslav crisis and, in particular, the role of germany which, by fomenting croatian nationalism, has fuelled a conflict with still wide open scars within europe. we also criticise the eu's expansionist policy, which under the guise of free trade seeks to conquer new markets and compensate for the weakness of domestic demand resulting from years of austerity policies.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the european union. far beyond the evaluation of the process, it points to a wide range of conditions for membership, which confirm the extent of the interference and loss of sovereignty imposed on countries and peoples in the eu accession process, in particular on issues such as justice, the internal and political organization of the country, the imposition of reforms such as the pact for growth and employment - and we know well what is behind these pacts of aggression - the requirement of aligning the positions of that country with those of the eu. we consider unacceptable the paternalistic attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ the eib's annual report for the financial year 2013 shows the 37% increase in the group's financing activities to eur 75,1 billion and the implementation of the eib's capital increase in 2013, showing its concern about the current economic stagnation in the eu and in particular the significant decline in public and private investment. smes are the backbone of the european economy and as such should be one of the main targets for investment. i welcome the increase in support for smes in the european union, which has now reached eur 21.9 billion, thus enabling more than 230 000 smes to access finance.
‒ we follow this report in a number of respects. the eib should pay more attention to smes, take account of the geographical distribution of the funds it lends (meeting the needs of the countries most affected by the crisis), and pay attention to investment in research and development. we also support the rapporteur's position that the eib should be more transparent in its management. however, this report should go deeper in its criticism of this institution, which is better known for the scandals surrounding its business than for its role in development aid. the eib is accused of acting with opacity, without satisfactory social and environmental standards and of being involved in controversial projects such as the tenke fungurume mining project in the democratic republic of congo (drc), just one example among many. the eib is not playing its role as a development bank. in latin america, more than 90% of eib financing is provided to subsidiaries of european companies or large multinationals. within the eu, the eib is now associated with the giant public-private partnership programme, the juncker plan, and thus removed from support for public investment. in the past we have denounced the restrictions on access to eib financing by cooperatives. all issues ignored by this report.
‒ this report contains some very positive elements. it draws attention to the disastrous consequences of the economic crisis and the implementation of austerity measures. it stresses the need to strike a new balance between better valuation and the best possible investment, and to steer the economy towards sustainable growth and a job-creating recovery. regrets that the ppps with shortcomings have become a costly public financing system for the private sector, generating public debt. regrets that the eib has financed the passante di mestre motorway section and the castor project; for these reasons, i voted in favour.
‒ this resolution concerns the 2013 annual report of the european parliament on the european investment bank (eib). the eib is not a commercial bank and should continue to play its essential role as a catalyst for sound investment of public and private financing for long-term investments, and should ensure the effective application of best banking practices in prudential matters in order to maintain its sound capital position with the subsequent positive impacts on lending conditions. the report therefore calls for efforts to be made to extend joint interventions to finance smes or sustainable infrastructure, whether tangible or intangible, recognising that one of the reasons for the investment and credit crunch is the loss of competitiveness of member states' economies. the creation of a working group, led by the commission and the eib, is therefore welcome, as are the legislative proposals for the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which aims to facilitate access to finance for member states and regions with high levels of unemployment and a gdp per capita below the eu average. i voted in favour.
‒ parliament issues an annual own-initiative report on the annual report of the european investment bank, whose main role is to act as a catalyst for the financing of long-term public and private investment (for example, by contributing €5 billion to the creation of the new european fund for strategic investments). i would like to stress a few points in this comprehensive and very detailed report, which i voted in favour of. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it should also be recalled that much of the bank's work has been channelled to the member states most directly affected by the crisis, providing important assistance to member states, especially those facing economic and financial difficulties. i end by underlining the importance of the eib following the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and further pointing out that the european fund for strategic investments should take due account of the general objectives of territorial, social and economic cohesion policy, as well as sustainability and energy efficiency.
‒ we follow this report with a set of points which suggest that the eib should pay more attention to smes, pay more attention to the geographical distribution of the funds it lends or pay more attention to r & d investments. we also support the report on the need for the eib to be more transparent in its management. however, this report should go deeper in criticizing this institution which is better known for the scandals surrounding its business than for its role in development aid. among the criticisms that have been levelled at the eib are allegations of opacity, lack of satisfactory social and environmental standards and involvement in controversial projects. the tenke fungurume mining project in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is just one example among many. the eib is not playing its role as a development bank. in latin america, more than 90% of eib financing is provided to subsidiaries of european companies or large multinationals. within the eu, the eib is bound by european standards. but in the south, it is not subject to any specific regulation: practices refer to a multiplicity of vague principles without operational procedures, or to the application of eu law according to 'local conditions'. this is a point we would like to see dealt with properly.
‒ we follow this report with a set of points which suggest that the eib should pay more attention to smes, pay more attention to the geographical distribution of the funds it lends or pay more attention to r & d investments. we also support the report on the need for the eib to be more transparent in its management. however, this report should go deeper in criticizing this institution which is better known for the scandals surrounding its business than for its role in development aid and cohesion. among the criticisms that have been levelled at the eib are allegations of opacity, lack of satisfactory social and environmental standards and involvement in controversial projects. in latin america, more than 90% of eib financing is provided to subsidiaries of european companies or large multinationals. we abstained.
‒ with the expo theme 'feeding the planet: energy for life', it is important to significantly boost the debate on improving food production and distribution, combating food waste, promoting and developing existing positive strategies to address the challenge of food insecurity, undernutrition and food imbalances, and creating a balance between the availability and consumption of resources. the milan fair offers an opportunity to debate the different approaches, finding solutions to the paradoxes of a globalised world where, on the one hand, there are some 870 million undernourished and hungry people and, on the other, some 2.8 million people die from health problems linked to poor diet, obesity and overweight.
‒ this resolution is the result of the decision of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the eu's participation in expo milano 2015. the eu will be represented at expo milano with a pavilion under the theme 'feeding the planet: energy for life'. after several hearings in the committee on agriculture on this topic, it was agreed that topics such as food security, the fight against food waste and the promotion of healthy eating and nutritional requirements, through the promotion of research and education, would be raised and focused in order to help prevent and eradicate malnutrition and prevent obesity. the resolution omits some important aspects, such as the defence of small farms and sustainable agriculture against intensive production methods, soil erosion, deforestation, water scarcity and the loss of biodiversity, which lead precisely to the lack of food on the planet. there is no mention of the struggle of farmers for the right to produce. the reference to the right to water is missing.
the milan world expo will run from 1 may to 30 october 2015, and will be devoted to the theme 'feeding the planet: energy for life'. the expo's themes focus mainly on the agricultural sector, which remains a key sector of the union's economy, with agricultural exports accounting for two thirds of its total external trade. the union remains the world's largest agricultural exporter and the eu food industry generates an annual turnover of approximately eur 1 trillion, employing more than 4 million people. the united nations food and agriculture organization (fao) on the other hand predicts that the world population will grow from 7 to 9.1 billion, requiring a 70% increase in food supply by the year 2050. to meet the challenge of food security, this resolution considers the following components to be essential: a strong and sustainable agricultural sector in the eu, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms ensured by a sound, fair, internationally sustainable and adequately funded common agricultural policy. i voted in favour.
‒ i support this motion for a resolution on the eu's participation in the 2015 world expo in milan, entitled 'feeding the planet: energy for life', which will take place between 1 may and 30 october 2015, as it is a unique opportunity for the eu to massively disseminate its main achievements in the fields of food and sustainability. the initiative coincides with the closing year of the millennium development goals and the start of a post-2015 framework that will also address the sustainable development goals. at the same time, the europe 2020 strategy will also be halfway through its implementation period, so expo milano will serve not only as a channel for presenting the strategy's interim results, but also for disseminating its objectives for the future, especially in the areas of food security and sustainability. as such, the eu's participation in this exhibition represents a unique opportunity to strengthen its role as a global player in the development of future initiatives on food, health and food safety and to communicate with citizens and raise awareness of current challenges and future sustainability goals.
in writing. - i voted in favour and i welcome the rapporteur, mr paolo de castro. the theme of the milan world's fair is food security at a time when 870 million people in the world are undernourished. the target set at the 1996 world food summit to reduce the number of hungry people by 2015 remains largely out of reach. it's good that the expo in milan is alerting to this. along with hunger and malnutrition, food waste and obesity are on the rise. we produce more food than we need, and at the same time we contribute to the degradation of the environment. this diachronicity is at the root of social conflict and injustice. a paradigm shift is urgently needed. investments must be made in fishing and farming practices that allow the preservation of natural resources for future generations. food security for all also means building local and regional livelihood capacities and contributing to a better distribution of resources and production on a global scale. i regret that portugal, my country, is not officially present at this important event. as a member of the house, i will be present.
‒ next may the eu will be represented at expo milano with a pavilion under the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life'. after several hearings in the committee on agriculture on this topic, it was agreed that topics such as food security, the fight against food waste and the promotion of healthy eating and nutritional requirements, through the promotion of research and education, which help to prevent and eradicate malnutrition and prevent obesity, would be raised and focused. the resolution omits some important aspects such as the defence of small farms, such as the defence and promotion of sustainable agriculture against the extensive production methods of large farms which cause, among other problems, soil erosion, deforestation, promote climate change, lack of water and loss of biodiversity, which lead precisely to the lack of food on the planet. there is also no mention of the struggle of farmers, and their right to farm, who are deprived of access to water and land, and many of the resources are sold to big business interests.
‒ the scourge of terrorism has left very deep marks in nigeria. despite being the largest economy in africa and also the largest country in terms of population, ethnic and religious differences as well as economic and social disparities fuel the violence that seriously threatens this state. the actions of the terrorist group boko haram have been condemned internationally, but unfortunately the initial response of the nigerian authorities was not adequate, contributing to the population's estrangement from government institutions. this terrorist group has used the most heinous and despicable means to achieve its goals and to spread terror not only in nigeria but also in neighboring countries. the announced intention of the united states to join forces with the so-called islamic state only reinforces the need for wider cooperation against those who seek to spread terror. it is important that efforts to combat terrorism are effective and sustained. only with a return to normalcy can we hope that nigeria can resume the path of democracy and consolidate the steps it has been trying to implement towards establishing a rule of law for all its inhabitants.
‒ the situation of christians in north-eastern nigeria, the elections held at the end of march, the use of children as human bombs, the abduction of women and girls and the measures to be taken by the international community are problems that should make us all reflect. the local government has been unable to stop the atrocities being committed by boko haram, a recognized extremist group. its eradication is crucial because the group is seen as a threat to peace and security in africa and to global peace and security, even though this requires activating the common security and defence policy, defending the people of nigeria and helping to eradicate boko haram.
‒ the situation in nigeria is inextricably linked to the exploitation of its natural resources, in particular oil. discovered in 1956, oil now accounts for 95 percent of nigeria's export earnings and 80 percent of its income. run by six large multinational companies in partnership with the state, oil extraction does not benefit everyone equally. the country, the continent's third-largest economy, is ranked 158th in the un human development index. seventy percent of nigerians live below the poverty line. local employment is increasingly a mirage because once important resources such as fishing or hunting are increasingly in jeopardy because of the impact of oil exploration and deforestation. pollution has turned the niger delta into one of the most polluted places on the planet. this dramatic situation has created tensions in the region. in the early 1990s, conflicts broke out between the multinationals and the various communities demanding fair compensation. the repressive and brutal response directed at these communities has triggered other responses, increasingly radical, putting the country in a state of permanent war. once again, we have the economic interests of capital at the root of the conflicts in one of the richest countries on the african continent.
‒ nigeria is the most populous and ethnically diverse country in africa, yet it is characterised by regional disparities and religious cleavages, as well as a north-south divide marked by severe economic and social disparities. nevertheless, and despite the looming economic crisis, nigeria is a leading player in the african economy and therefore an important trading partner of the eu. but it does not have a consolidated democracy and a track record of democracy. in this context, the attacks by boko haram between 3 and 8 january 2015 on baga and 16 neighbouring towns and villages resulted in the destruction of 3 700 structures and the death of thousands of people, and ushered in a climate of continued violence and permanent insecurity. the resolution strongly condemns the crimes, suffering and destruction inflicted by the boko haram sect and calls on the new nigerian authorities to adopt a road map for social and economic development. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on the eu and its member states to honour their external commitments in political and humanitarian aid which is indispensable to nigeria's development.
in the light of our previous resolutions on nigeria, in particular our last debate in the plenary on 14 january, we have once again condemned the terrible actions of boko haram, which, as this joint resolution describes, involve slavery, forced marriages, sexual violence, abduction, forced and mass displacement of populations, the recruitment of children for terrorist acts and their use as suicide bombers, horrendous inhuman acts which have spread to neighbouring countries such as chad and cameroon and which must be stopped immediately. we therefore support the initiatives of the african union peace and security council, the determination expressed by the 13 countries participating in the niamey regional summit (last january) and, in particular, the military commitment made by chad, cameroon and nigeria to fight against boko haram. i also support the new nigerian president, from whom we expect firm action against these criminals, and the nigerian people for their democratic enthusiasm and their recent mobilization in the context of the electoral process. and our constant appeal to the european commission and the member states to use all means at their disposal to put an end to these inhuman atrocities.
‒ the problem of oil exploration is the real source of the current crisis in nigeria. discovered in 1956, oil now accounts for 95 percent of nigeria's export earnings and 80 percent of its income. run by six large multinational companies in partnership with the state, oil extraction does not benefit everyone equally the country, the continent's third-largest economy, is ranked 158th in the human development index. we're talking about one of the biggest organised heists in history. seventy percent of nigerians live below the poverty line. local employment is increasingly a mirage because once important resources such as fishing or hunting are increasingly in jeopardy because of the impact of oil exploration and deforestation. pollution has turned the niger delta into one of the most polluted places on the planet. this dramatic situation has created tensions in the region. in the early 1990s, conflicts broke out between the multinationals and the various communities demanding fair compensation. the extremely brutal response of the state has fueled increasingly radical responses, putting the country in a state of permanent war. once again, we have the economic interests of capital at the root of the conflicts in one of the richest countries on the african continent.
‒ the problem of oil exploration is the real source of the current crisis in nigeria. discovered in 1956, oil now accounts for 95 percent of nigeria's export earnings and 80 percent of its income. run by six large multinational companies in partnership with the state, oil extraction does not benefit everyone equally. the country, the continent's third-largest economy, is ranked 158th in the human development index. we're talking about one of the biggest organised heists in history. seventy percent of nigerians live below the poverty line. this dramatic situation has created tensions in the region. in the early 1990s, conflicts broke out between the multinationals and the various communities demanding fair compensation. the extremely brutal response of the state has fueled increasingly radical responses, putting the country in a state of permanent war. once again, the economic interests of capital are at the root of the conflicts in one of the richest countries on the african continent, conflicts that have been exacerbated by eu interference.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, since june of 2014, nadiya savchenko has been in pretrial detention without any legal justification or any evidence presented against her by the investigative committee of russia so far. this detention violates the right to liberty, security and a fair trial guaranteed by the european convention on human rights, to which the russian federation is a signatory. it also calls into question the agreement reached in minsk on 12 february on the release of all those detained during the armed conflict in ukraine and infringes the immunity of the members of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, to which savchenko is a delegate. after 83 days of hunger strike, which have seriously damaged her health, i call for the immediate release of nadiya savchenko and all other ukrainian citizens who are being illegally detained in the name of international law and on humanitarian grounds.
mr president, yarmouk is a damning indictment of our civilization and the outdated system of international regulation which we have failed to reform because of a failure of leadership at european and global level. yarmouk shows the inability of the un security council to at least enforce the humanitarian principle of protecting civilians in time of war by allowing terrorist groups opposed to the forces of the terrorist assad regime to violently clash in a camp where only civilians, refugees, and victims of an even older conflict are found. it is unbearable that three years later, access and humanitarian support for the palestinian refugees in yarmouk are still not guaranteed. it is intolerable that the permanent members of the security council, other states or the european union itself have not yet guaranteed adequate financial support to unrwa so that it can maintain aid from next summer. the question of the future of europe is not a question of the future of europe. where is the responsibility to protect in syria? why have we abandoned not just this doctrine that required us to intervene humanitarianally, but actually why have we abandoned the syrian people and the refugees that syria was hosting?
mr president, several areas of yarmouk, the largest palestinian refugee camp in syria, were taken over by jihadists from the self-proclaimed islamic state with the collaboration of al-nusra, the syrian branch of al-qaeda, on 1 april. some 18 000 palestinian and syrian civilians, including 3 500 children, are besieged in a totally catastrophic humanitarian situation after two years of a virtually total siege imposed by the syrian regime. without running water, food or access to medicine, and now turned into real human shields by the jihadists, their situation is tragic. it is urgent that the camp be recognised as neutral territory in the context of the syrian conflict and that staff from unrwa, the un agency for palestinian refugees, and other international humanitarian organisations be allowed into yarmouk to ensure protection and assistance to civilians in the camp and that a humanitarian corridor be opened to allow the evacuation of those wishing to leave the camp.
author. mr president, despite promises of reforms since 2011, the human rights situation in algeria remains worrying. renewed legal pressure this year against trade unionists and labour rights activists in the south of the country adds to restrictions on freedoms of assembly, expression and association. i call for the immediate and unconditional release of these activists. the law on associations must be replaced by a law in accordance with the international covenants on civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights ratified by algeria, which must guarantee the right to a fair and equitable trial, a right which is paramount to all others. the fact that we in this parliament and in the european union value the strategic cooperation with the algerian authorities in various fields, in particular regional security and the fight against terrorism, cannot silence us in the face of the pressure of peaceful public protests, as well as arbitrary detentions and judicial pressure against those exercising the right of assembly, expression and protest, duly recognized by algerian law. the repression is indeed playing into the hands of the extremists. what can distinguish us in the european union and in algeria from the terrorists is precisely the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the rules of democracy. i therefore ask high representative mogherini to ensure that the future eu-algeria action plan includes timetabled and specific human rights objectives by ensuring genuine, transparent cooperation mechanisms and monitoring that we in parliament can scrutinise. that is what is called for in the resolution we are going to adopt.
ask him about the blue card procedure. other portugal sets the example for europe, enjoy this immense glory in advance. europe will follow portugal's example. these words were written by victor hugo about 150 years ago, when portugal became the second country in europe to abolish the death penalty. the question i put to you, mr president, is: how can europe demand that algeria uphold the rule of law when at the same time we have voices in the european union, like viktor orbán, calling for the re-introduction of the death penalty? this is certainly much more serious than the human rights violation in algeria at the moment, which is a very serious case.
mr president, i just wanted to inform you that last friday night president poroshenko signed a legislative package banning the use of communist symbols and the communist name in his country. i would ask you if you do not consider this to be a restriction on democratic freedoms and what do you intend to do?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, the vast majority of european citizens are affected, directly or indirectly, by benchmarks. we currently have different vendors producing different benchmarks, using different methodologies. many of the benchmarks have in fact become public goods. as such, their social benefits should be maximised, while the damage caused to the real economy and to society as a whole by their potential misproduction or misuse should be subject to strict scrutiny and criminal and financial sanctions. my opinion focused mainly on the commodity price assessments provided by the supervisory agencies and the physical energy markets. the current provisions prohibiting the manipulation of the benchmarks used do not address all vulnerabilities found in the production process. the pricing models vary considerably. we also know that the manipulation of commodity price valuations can put not only the investor but also the end user at risk, because it is this that determines the price that many households will pay for gas or any other energy supply. furthermore, we cannot ignore conflicts of interest or discretion, which is what happens when there is no proper governance and controls. i therefore welcome the legislative initiative in this respect, as self-regulation has proved ineffective. in my view, i have sought to minimize the vulnerability of the valuation process, to facilitate the determination of the valued price, whether it accurately reflects the transactions of the physical market it intends to measure, whether the data is sufficient to represent that market, and whether it is in good faith. i have sought to facilitate the ability to detect, deter and, if necessary, take enforcement action in relation to manipulation or other abusive conduct. my final assessment is, however, negative in the light of the proposals we have discussed here, not only because my proposals were not accepted but because the essential issue, that of critical benchmarks, fell far short of what it should have been. the final wording is very limited as regards proportionality and as regards the definition of what constitutes a critical benchmark or a critical benchmark index. i have proposed the extension of the scope of what is considered a critical benchmark, there have been proposals from the green and socialist groups which would be essential to ensure effective regulation of this matter, but all of these have been rejected. that is why, finally, in a sensitive area such as this, it is essential to do rather than pretend to do. unfortunately, little is done and that is not enough to restore confidence.
the report on financing for development beyond 2015 which i am presenting here today and which will be voted on tomorrow is the result of an intense and productive political debate in this parliament, which has benefited from a very significant participation of non-governmental organisations and civil society. the broad consensus reached in the committee on development, which i hope will be reinforced in the vote in plenary tomorrow, was only possible thanks to the commitment of all the political groups, and so my first words are to thank all the colleagues, especially the shadow rapporteurs, for their contribution and also for the strong support we have always had from the chair of the deve committee, linda mcavan. we know that the price of extended commitments is often political irrelevance. experience shows that the search for a minimum common denominator often leads to empty proclamations, to the mere assertion of general principles without practical implications. and in the end, we all agree more or less, we go home satisfied because each one reads in the text what suits him best. fortunately, that is not the case in this report. my report proposes, without ambiguity, that the european parliament make a choice, take a clear position and send a strong political message to the commission, the council and the member states on the leading role and responsibility that the european union should have in the negotiations that will take place at the third international conference on financing for development in addis ababa as early as next july. it is true that the new challenges we face are difficult and place the shared responsibility that was already placed in the monterrey consensus in 2002 in a different position. but what is at stake now is very concrete things: firstly, that the european union urgently reconfirm its commitment to allocate 0.7% of gni to official development aid. there can be no more delays or excuses because there will be no leadership by example in addis ababa without this commitment; secondly, that the european union gives credibility to its commitment and takes on a timetable for meeting this financial target by 2020; thirdly, that 50% of this aid, at least 0.2% of gni, is reserved for the least developed countries and, because it would be a grave mistake to minimize the importance of official development aid, we must do what needs to be done. there are other issues on the table which will be discussed in addis ababa and they are equally very important: the mobilisation of domestic resources of developing countries, which requires fairer and more efficient tax systems, more combating tax evasion and avoidance, more international tax cooperation, including through an intergovernmental body for tax cooperation within the framework of the united nations. and it is also very important that the private sector is more aligned with the objectives of sustainable development, with a regulatory framework that favours it and also with financial instruments and incentive structures that ensure that alignment. mr president, after the tragedy we are living through and witnessing in the mediterranean, development cooperation with the countries of origin of the migratory flows, of the refugees who are truly desperate, also reminds us of the urgency of taking this commitment to the development objectives seriously, but there will be no serious commitment without financing instruments that are commensurate with our values and our responsibilities.
mr president, the asymmetrical interdependence of global capitalism is the cause of uneven development on a global scale. the north-south divide is probably the most obvious and vivid expression of this inequality, not the only one. with economic inequality comes political dependence and subordination. there are various instruments which promote this cycle of increasing impoverishment, dependence and subordination. this is the case with the external debt, which has been paid off several times and is nevertheless constantly increasing. there will be no serious and effective development cooperation policy without addressing this issue and without the essential cancellation of this debt and the mechanisms that support it. it is not a question of solidarity, but of elementary justice. in the name of debt, the interventions of the imf and the world bank are seriously undermining the already fragile economies of the developing countries and are draining endogenous resources to the so-called donors, resources that go beyond the amounts of official development aid, thus accentuating inequality. official development aid is crucial and must increase, even in line with international commitments which have been made but not fulfilled, but it is not enough on its own and cannot serve as a cover to hide the disastrous effects of sectoral policies based on protectionism for the rich, trade liberalisation, deregulation of the financial system, tax havens, nor can it export and impose models of economic and political organisation which so often disregard the sovereignty, needs and legitimate choices of developing countries.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, mr arne lietz spoke about policy coherence. it's a very important issue. in the 19th century, the dominican lacordaire, in a maxim that would become famous, said: 'between the weak and the strong, between the rich and the poor, it is freedom that oppresses and it is the law that liberates'. i ask you whether, transposed to our own day, you would not advise reversing the policies of trade liberalization and deregulation of international trade which are so harmful to these countries, but which your group has advocated.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the members who have taken part in this debate for their support for my report and i would also like to welcome the constructive position of the european commission and the communication it has presented and to acknowledge the personal commitment of commissioner mimica. we know that the resistance to concrete financial commitments comes from the council and the member states, not so much from the commission. but there is a clear political message in the report. the european union's position on the conference on financing for development has so far been marked by a certain lack of commitment to financial targets. and it is this lack of commitment to the financial targets and their timing that we hope will be corrected, if possible already at the next council meeting. the political position which parliament is going to vote on is in this direction and we hope that the commission and the council will take it into account. secondly, i would like to stress that we can demand more from others, from emerging countries, from other international partners, from developing countries, but we can and must also demand more from ourselves, because the challenges challenge our values and because we are falling short of the commitments we have made, particularly with the 0.7% of development aid. and without ambition at the addis ababa conference, without adequate funding, the sustainable development goals, however beautiful, will not be off the paper. that is the challenge before us, to live up to our responsibilities and to live up to our values.
mr president, commissioner, there are undoubtedly aspects to be clarified in relation to these agreements concluded between the european commission and the tobacco industry, as there are also aspects to be clarified in relation to the substance of these agreements themselves, counterfeiting and smuggling of tobacco. because it is not independent laboratories but the industry itself that determines whether or not there is counterfeiting, for example. the dynamics of this illicit business and its interpenetrations with the licit part of the business undoubtedly deserve further investigation and clarification. we support the question raised here about the amounts and destination of the funds received by the member states under this agreement. one thing is certain, there is much to be done in the field of tobacco control. in portugal, for example, the number of places with cessation counselling has fallen by almost half in four years. a telling example of who wins and who loses with the way things are.
tobacco production in europe plays an environmental and social role in an agricultural activity that remains relevant in some regions. although european production represents only 3% of the world total each year, it is no less important for the rural populations who engage in this activity and depend on it, such as in the azores. the issue of counterfeiting has several problems associated with it, ranging from organized crime to financial issues and, above all, health issues. it is therefore essential that every effort be made to curb this practice. counterfeit tobacco products are free from any quality and hygiene controls and their contents and ingredients are unknown. the health risks of such products can be fatal and such risks are unacceptable in a society with the means that we fortunately have. i congratulate the european commission on its accession to the world health organisation's protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products and call on it to spare no effort to contribute to this objective.
mr president, improving patient safety and combating microbial resistance to antibiotics must be the burning objectives of public health policy. three brief remarks on this issue. first, the attack on public health systems aggravates and complicates the resolution of these problems. it is within the framework of universal, free, quality health services, with qualified, entitled and sufficient staff, that a whole range of preventive practices and procedures can best be adopted, both at the primary health care level and at the hospital level. this is just the opposite of what's been done in recent years. the situation has worsened considerably and the european union has heavy responsibilities. secondly, the consequences of the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in livestock must be fully understood and combated, which requires a profound change in current production models and the agricultural and trade policies associated with them. thirdly and lastly, it is crucial to step up research and development efforts for new medicines and to do so by challenging the primacy of multinational pharmaceutical companies in this field and by strengthening public capacity.
mr president, environmental protection, the efficient and sustainable use of resources, reuse and recycling, among other sustainable development objectives, are undoubtedly opportunities for the development of a wide range of small and mediumsized enterprises. but here a word of caution: the market for environmental goods and services to which this report refers cannot justify or legitimize old or new forms of private appropriation of nature and its resources. nor can it dismiss or exempt public institutions from the responsibilities and tasks they should have in these areas. as for the bottlenecks faced by smes, such as the costs of some factors of production, credit for example, this matter should be discussed. the need for public control of strategic sectors of the economy is reinforced, breaking with the oligopoly structure prevailing in several of these sectors and stifling smes.
mr president, commissioner, in recent years the persistent shortage of raw materials has become apparent worldwide. important mineral resources with restricted distribution on a planetary scale are in short supply. and it is no coincidence that some of the largest reserves are located in countries ravaged by internal conflict, interference, and constant violations of their sovereignty and territorial integrity, often with the complicity of international organizations and foreign powers interested in maintaining control of resources. this is the case in the great lakes region. it is therefore appropriate to discuss mechanisms for the certification of importers of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, by establishing traceability mechanisms to identify raw materials originating from these areas. but these mechanisms have obvious limits which become even clearer when we look at this proposal for a regulation, a proposal which only covers a part of the marketed minerals and which does not go beyond the first link in the value chain, deliberately forgetting the myriad of final and intermediate products where these raw materials are incorporated. it is a perverse proposal which will solve nothing and may even create new problems.
in writing. we do not deny progress, let alone the enormous potential of the digital revolution in its ability to significantly improve the daily lives of people and economic agents. we doubt the ability of capitalist society to reverse the benefits of technological advances for the people and the workers. the advances in the digital economy open the door to a wide range of new activities in the service sector. but they also mean the destruction of many jobs, which are becoming obsolete with the emergence of these new technologies. only a planned economy at the service of the people and the workers will be able to impose a logic of sharing, which will allow everyone to benefit equally from these advances. with this model, once again, it will be the big companies that will accumulate the gigantic profits generated by these new technologies, benefiting for this purpose from the legislative environment conducive to exploitation, provided, in a servile way, by the current governments and the current institutions of the european union.
in writing. creating the digital single market (dsm) is not a 'yes or no' choice. the digital union will develop more or less flat and perfect. the key is to define how. will it be created under the pressure of reality, giving competitors an advantage over european companies, or will we be able to create favourable contexts in advance so that the union can lead in market niches such as health services, energy efficiency, cultural content, smart mobility or others that are critical to the competitiveness of our economy and the sustainability of our welfare state? this is the key question to which the commission and governments have only one way of responding, by acting with a humanistic vision and not with a technocratic approach. the digital union needs laws and infrastructure, but that will not help if we do not guarantee access. in creating the digital union, there will be no second chance to cause a winning dynamic. it takes vision and ambition. a european citizens' and small businesses' empowerment programme for the digital single market is the way to reach out to everyone and mobilise everyone for the challenge.
‒ having examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, it appears that the proposal is in fact a mere codification without any change in the substance of the acts to which it relates.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to consolidate previous legislation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. in 1987, the european commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, in order to make eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen, which would allow him new opportunities and the possibility of benefiting from the specific rights attributed to him. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself. it is therefore a purely technical amendment.
the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
in writing. the successive amendments to council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 justify its codification for reasons of legal certainty and clarity. the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, hereinafter referred to as the 'agreement', signed on 22 july 1972, lacks rules for the implementation of the safeguard clauses and precautionary measures provided for in articles 22 to 27 of the agreement. the application of the bilateral safeguard clauses of the agreement requires uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures, which should comply with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council. i voted in favour of this amendment, on the understanding that the commission should adopt immediately applicable implementing acts if, in duly justified cases relating to situations referred to in articles 24, 24a and 26 of the agreement or in the case of export aid having a direct and immediate effect on trade, imperative grounds of urgency so require.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 10 july 2014, the consultative working party, composed of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. it concluded by common accord that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour.
in the light of the foregoing, the commission considers that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and that it is confined to the mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive amendments, there would be no reason to vote against it.
the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal changes required by the codification process itself. we have nothing to object to.
the purpose of this report is to codify for the council council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. in 1987, the commission decided to ask its services to codify all acts at the latest after 10 amendments, expressing the aim of making eu legislation more accessible and easier to understand for the ordinary citizen. this objective cannot be achieved, of course, as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed, by means of an interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, on an accelerated procedure which can be used for the rapid adoption of consolidated acts. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, preserving the content of the codified acts in full and introducing only the formal amendments required by the codification process itself. so we abstained.
‒ this report concerns the european parliament's approval of the convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access. in adopting directive 98/84/ec, the eu exercised its competence in the areas covered by the convention, except for articles 6 (loss measures) and 8 (international cooperation), which cover topics such as international cooperation, civil procedure and confiscation measures. the convention should therefore be approved by both the eu and its member states. the convention covers information society services and broadcasting services provided for remuneration and based on or consisting of conditional access. the purpose of this convention is to make illegal in the territories of the parties a number of activities (identified in article 4) which allow unauthorised access to protected services, and to approximate the laws of the parties in this field. understanding the general scope and purposes of the convention and generally accepting them, we consider that the subject matter of this report is not without other consequences, going beyond those set out in the text of the convention.
‒ this directive has created a common legal framework throughout the european union for the fight against illegal devices allowing unauthorised access to pay-tv services and for the effective protection of such services. the protection covers both traditional television and radio broadcasting and internet transmission. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the council decision is related to directive 98/84/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 20 november 1998 on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access, which created the common legal framework for member states on measures to combat illicit devices that provide unauthorised access to protected services. broadcasting services, including internet, television and radio services, are covered by this protection. the contentious dispute which has so far prevented the conclusion of the convention having been overcome, i approve the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access.
in writing. ‒ on 20 november 1998, the council and the european parliament adopted directive 98/84/ec on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access. the aim was to establish a common union-wide legal framework to combat illicit devices allowing unauthorised access to television services provided for a fee. this protection covers both traditional television and radio broadcasting and internet transmission. on 24 january 2001, a council of europe convention on this subject was adopted in terms fully compatible with the said directive. the court of justice has held that the convention is not a legal instrument and that the convention is not a legal instrument. following this decision, the council then corrected the legal basis by adopting a new decision with a view to approving the convention on behalf of the union. the aim of this resolution is precisely to bring the convention to a conclusion and to obtain the consent of the european parliament. i voted in favour.
‒ this is a convention of our time, relating to access to information and entertainment services (tv, radio and internet) for a fee. the main purpose of the convention is to establish common legislation for a range of activities which allow unauthorised access to certain protected services. more specifically, this protection will consist in declaring illegal all commercial activity related to equipment which allows or facilitates access to these services without authorization or payment to the provider thereof, and establishing appropriate sanctions. the aim is to provide legal protection for service providers while ensuring the quality of services.
‒ this report concerns the european parliament's approval of the convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access. the convention should be approved by both the union and its member states. the declaration on the division of competences between the union and its member states is included in the annex to the council decision. the convention covers information society services and broadcasting services provided for remuneration and based on or consisting of conditional access. the purpose of this convention is to make illegal in the territories of the parties a number of activities that allow unauthorised access to protected services and to approximate the laws of the parties in this field.
‒ this report concerns the european parliament's approval of the convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of conditional access. in adopting directive 98/84/ec, the eu exercised its competence in the areas covered by the convention, except for articles 6 (loss measures) and 8 (international cooperation), which cover topics such as international cooperation, civil procedure and confiscation measures. the convention covers information society services and broadcasting services provided for remuneration and based on or consisting of conditional access. the purpose of this convention is to make illegal in the territories of the parties a number of activities (identified in article 4) which allow unauthorised access to protected services, and to approximate the laws of the parties in this field. understanding the scope and general aims of the convention and generally accepting them, we consider that the subject matter of this report is not without other consequences, such as the monopolistic concentration of services provided by telecommunications companies. we abstained.
‒ i agree with the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, since the crimes he is accused of humiliation of a court or judge due to the exercise of judicial functions by actions, oral or written statements, punishable by fine, detention or imprisonment for a maximum period of two years were committed before his election to the european parliament. immunity is usually waived when the offence is in no way connected with the performance of the duties of a member, provided that there is no fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the motive behind the prosecution is to cause political damage to the member concerned. consequently, the criminal proceedings brought against viktor uspaskich are not linked to his current mandate as a member of the european parliament.
‒ viktor uspaskich, lithuanian member of the european parliament, was a member of the lithuanian parliament at the time of the alleged crime of which he is accused. in july 2013, viktor uspaskich was answering questions from journalists at vilnius airport when he allegedly described the judges who found him guilty in a criminal case against him as cowards, criminals and puppets. in accordance with article 232 of the lithuanian criminal code, public humiliation of a court or a judge due to the exercise of judicial functions is punishable by a fine, detention or imprisonment for a maximum period of two years. it happens that this member of parliament says he is discriminated against and persecuted in lithuania because he belongs to the russian-speaking minority in a country where anti-russian sentiment is rife in the institutions of the state. uspaskich says his party's headquarters were searched when he went to russia for his mother's funeral. the alde group, to which mr uspaskich belongs, has asked that the report be referred back to the commission for further consideration. specifically, it was requested that all of uspaskich's statements be analysed and not just the part that had been analysed and allegedly decontextualised. we supported this request.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor-general of lithuania has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr viktor uspaskich, member of the european parliament, in the context of a preliminary investigation into the alleged commission of a crime. viktor uspaskich is accused of committing the crime of contempt of court under article 232 of the criminal code of the republic of lithuania. there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. reasonable suspicion that the legal action was brought with the aim of politically harming the member. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 1 october 2014, the prosecutor general of lithuania requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, member of the european parliament, in the framework of a preliminary investigation into the alleged criminal contempt of court practice on 28 july 2013 pursuant to article 232 of the criminal code of the republic of lithuania. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, article 8 of the protocol does not apply in this case, since viktor uspaskich was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the events. in these terms and on the basis of the report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich.
‒ this is a matter of internal lithuanian justice, unrelated to viktor uspaskich's status as a member of parliament.
‒ the immunity of members of the european parliament is protected by articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. in order to benefit from immunity under article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, legal proceedings must relate to opinions or votes expressed by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. consequently, article 8 of the protocol does not apply, since viktor uspaskich was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the events. in the light of the arguments put forward, and in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the immunity of mr viktor uspaskich. however, this member claims to be discriminated against in lithuania because she is a russian speaker; your party headquarters were searched when you went to russia for your mother's funeral. that is why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ at the time of the alleged crime of which he is accused, viktor uspaskich was a member of the lithuanian parliament. on 28 july 2013, viktor uspaskich was answering questions from journalists at vilnius airport when he allegedly described as cowards, criminals and puppets the judges who had found him guilty on 12 july 2013 of a criminal case against him. in accordance with article 232 of the lithuanian criminal code, public humiliation of a court or a judge due to the exercise of judicial functions is punishable by a fine, detention or imprisonment for a maximum period of two years. it happens that this member of parliament says he is discriminated against and persecuted in lithuania because he belongs to the russian-speaking minority in a country where anti-russian sentiment is rife in the institutions of the state. uspaskich says his party's headquarters were searched when he went to russia for his mother's funeral. the alde group, to which mr uspaskich belongs, has asked that the report be referred back to the commission for further consideration. specifically, it was requested that all of uspaskich's statements be analysed and not just the part that had been analysed and allegedly decontextualised. we supported this request.
‒ the prosecutor general at the paris court of appeal has requested the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of mr jérôme lavrilleux, member of parliament, in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation into suspicion of forgery and use of false documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in these offences and their cover-up, as well as illegal financing of an election campaign and complicity in this offence and its cover-up. there are also suspicions of participation in a fictitious billing system for election campaign expenses. parliament did not detect the existence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the intention to prejudice the member's political activity was at the origin of the judicial proceedings. so i agree with the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ the french member of the european parliament, jérôme lavrilleux, is suspected of participating in a fictitious invoicing system for the election campaign expenses of nicholas sarkozy for the french presidency, in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation (forgery and use of false documents, breach of trust, attempted deception, complicity in these offences and their cover-up, as well as illegal financing). the rapporteur considers that the charges do not relate to the status of jérôme lavrilleux as a member of the european parliament and stem from his previous duties as deputy director of electoral campaigns in the last presidential elections held in france; that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes expressed by jérôme lavrilleux in the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol (no 7) on the privileges and immunities of the european union; and that parliament has not found that there is a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the judicial proceedings were initiated with the intention of prejudicing the member's political activity. it therefore proposes to waive the immunity of mr lavrilleux. we are following the position of our group in support of the report.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor-general at the paris court of appeal has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation into suspicion of forgery and use of false documents, breach of trust, attempted deception, complicity in and cover-up of these offences, and illegal financing of an election campaign and complicity in and cover-up of this offence. the charges do not relate to jérôme lavrilleux's status as a member of the european parliament and stem from his previous role as deputy director of the electoral campaign in the last presidential elections held in france. parliament did not detect the existence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the legal proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming the political activity of mr voti, and therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 23 december 2014, the prosecutor general at the paris court of appeal requested the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux, member of the european parliament, in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation into suspicion of forgery and use of false documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in and cover-up of these offences, as well as illegal financing of an electoral campaign and complicity in and cover-up of this offence. in order to benefit from the immunity provided for in articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the judicial procedure must relate to an opinion or vote expressed by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. in the present case, the committee on legal affairs concluded that these charges did not relate to the performance of jérôme lavrilleux's duties as a member of parliament, but were related to his previous duties in the campaign team of the candidate for the presidency. in these terms and on the basis of the juri report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux.
‒ this is a matter of french internal justice, unrelated to the status of jérôme lavrilleux as a member of parliament.
‒ the charges do not relate to jérôme lavrilleux's status as a member of the european parliament and stem from his previous role as deputy director of electoral campaigns in the last french presidential elections. the judicial procedure shall not affect opinions or votes expressed by mr lavrilleux in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol (no 7) on the privileges and immunities of the european union. parliament did not find that there was a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the judicial proceedings were initiated with the intention of prejudicing the member's political activity.
‒ mep jérôme lavrilleux is suspected of participating in a fictitious invoicing system for election campaign expenses in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation (forgery and use of false documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in these offences and their cover-up, as well as illegal financing of an election campaign and complicity in this offence and its cover-up), while supporting the election campaign of sarkozy for the presidency of france. the rapporteur considers that the charges do not relate to the position of jérôme lavrilleux as a member of the european parliament, since they stem from his previous duties as deputy director of electoral campaigns in the last presidential elections held in france, and that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes expressed by jérôme lavrilleux in the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol (no 7) on the privileges and immunities of the european union. we voted to lift parliamentary immunity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the alleged acts have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by janusz korwin-mikke, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has failed to find any evidence of fumus persecutionis. i agree with the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the in december 2014, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the european parliament (ep) a request for authorisation from the district prosecutor's office in warsaw, submitted in the same month, to bring criminal proceedings against a polish member of the european parliament, janusz korwinmikke. in july 2014, janusz korwin-mikke allegedly attacked the physical integrity of michał boni (also an mep) by hitting him with a punch in the face during an event in warsaw at the occasion of a meeting with newly elected polish meps, promoted by the ministry of foreign affairs. the conduct of janusz korwin-mikke may constitute an offence under article 222 (1) of the polish criminal code, in so far as the physical integrity of a public official will allegedly have been compromised. under article 115 (13) (2a) of the polish criminal code, a member of the european parliament is a civil servant. in view of the arguments put forward and in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive janusz's immunity. i'm not sure. we voted in favour.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland sent to the ep a request from the district prosecutor's office in warsaw for authorisation to bring criminal proceedings against a member of the european parliament, mr janusz korwin-mikke, for an infringement of article 222 (1) of the polish criminal code, specifying that the case concerned the alleged violation of the physical integrity of a public official. parliament has not been able to find any evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the proceedings were instituted with the intention of harming the member's political activity. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 29 december 2014, the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke, member of the european parliament, in a criminal case for alleged breach of the physical integrity of a public official. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in the view of the committee on legal affairs, although the events took place when janusz korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament, in a political context the alleged offence cannot be considered to be related to the performance of the duties of a member. in these terms and on the basis of the juri report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
‒ this is a matter of internal polish justice, unrelated to the status of janusz korwin-mikke as a member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ on 11 july 2014, janusz korwin-mikke allegedly attacked the physical integrity of michał boni (mep) by hitting him with a punch in the face during an event in warsaw at the occasion of a meeting with newly elected polish meps, organised by the ministry of foreign affairs. the conduct of janusz korwin-mikke may constitute an offence under article 222 (1) of the polish criminal code, in so far as the physical integrity of a public official will allegedly have been compromised. in the light of the arguments put forward, and in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ the on 29 december 2014, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the european parliament a request for authorisation, submitted by the warsaw district prosecutor's office on 19 december 2014, to bring criminal proceedings against a member of the european parliament, mr janusz korwin-mikke. on 11 july 2014, janusz korwin-mikke allegedly attacked the physical integrity of michał boni (mep) by hitting him with a punch in the face during an event in warsaw a meeting with newly elected polish meps, promoted by the ministry of foreign affairs. the conduct of janusz korwin-mikke may constitute an offence under article 222 (1) of the polish criminal code, in so far as the physical integrity of a public official will allegedly have been compromised. under article 115 (13) (2a) of the polish criminal code, a member of the european parliament is a civil servant. in the light of the arguments put forward and in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the immunity of mr korwin-mikke. we've been tracking that position.
‒ the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in connection with a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. he is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 in the paok football club, of which he was president at the time. the charge does not relate to opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor are there grounds for suspecting that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to prejudice the political activity of the member, since the proceedings were instituted several years before the member took office. that said, i agree with the waiver of theodoros zagorakis' immunity.
‒ greek mep theodoros zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club, of which he was president at the time. the rapporteur considers that the offence of which he is accused has no connection with the seat occupied by theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his position as president of paok football club; that the charge does not concern opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of the functions of a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union; and that there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), since the proceedings were instituted several years before the member took office. it therefore proposes to waive the immunity of theodoros zagorakis. we are following the position of our group in support of this report.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in connection with a possible legal action concerning an alleged offence. theodoros zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club, of which he was president at the time. the alleged offence obviously has no relation to the seat occupied by theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his position as president of paok football club. there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as the proceedings were instituted several years before the member took office. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 10 march 2015, the prosecutor/deputy of the supreme court of greece requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, in the context of an action pending before the thessaloniki court of first instance concerning financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 in the paok football club, then chaired by the said mp. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. according to the understanding of the committee on legal affairs, the alleged offence has no relation to the office of member of the european parliament, but is rather linked to the position of theodoros zagorakis as president of the football club paok. in these terms and on the basis of the juri report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis.
‒ this is a matter of internal greek justice, unrelated to the status of theodoros zagorakis as a member of parliament.
‒ theodoros zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club, of which he was president at the time. the offence of which he is accused has no relation to his position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his position as president of paok football club. the charge shall not relate to opinions or votes expressed in the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, since the proceedings were instituted several years before the member took office. we voted yes.
‒ member of parliament theodoros zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club, of which he was president at the time. the rapporteur considers that the offence of which theodoros zagorakis is accused has no relation to his position as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his position as president of the paok football club. considers that the charge does not concern opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of the functions of a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the commission also notes that the court of justice has not yet ruled on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. it therefore decides to waive the immunity of theodoros zagorakis. we voted yes.
‒ in accordance with the rules of the lisbon treaty, the economic and social committee may be consulted by parliament whenever it deems it appropriate, and it is for parliamentary committees to request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general problems or specific questions. i support the request of the committee on constitutional affairs to consult the economic and social committee on strengthening the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty. given the nature of its membership and as the body par excellence that promotes participatory democracy and helps to strengthen the role of civil society organisations through the establishment of a structured dialogue, i believe that its hearing will be an asset for discussion and reflection on the matter.
in writing. ‒ we have no illusions whatsoever about the meaning of the 'strengthening of the functioning of the eu' in question. this is all the more so when such strengthening is advocated 'on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is nothing more than an attempt to deepen the pillars of this capitalist integration: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. this is a path that, in the face of the deep crisis facing the eu, the main political families - the right and the social democrats - have been trying for some time. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, within the limits (which are obviously already broad, although not as broad as some new leaps, desired by some, might require) of the lisbon treaty, escaping the public, democratic scrutiny of the peoples, in particular by means of referendums. for our part, we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the need for its repeal. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people. we are not opposed to consulting the european economic and social committee. but we are obviously aware - and here we denounce it - of the underlying meaning of this whole process.
‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'strengthening the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty', as i consider it of vital importance to monitor and study its progress and future solutions. the committee of the regions is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres.
‒ the european economic and social committee (eesc) was set up in 1957 as a forum for debate on matters relating to the single market. the eesc provides european interest groups, such as trade unions, employers' associations and farmers' associations, with the opportunity to formally comment on eu legislative proposals. the opinions issued are addressed to the main european institutions, namely the council, the commission and the european parliament. this request for consultation, as provided for in rule 137 of the rules of procedure, is intended to seek the views of representatives of employers, workers and other european interest groups on the strengthening of the functioning of the european union within the framework of the treaty of lisbon. i voted in favour.
‒ in writing. pursuant to rule 137 of parliament's rules of procedure, this is merely a request for consultation by the european economic and social committee.
‒ we have serious reservations about the meaning of the 'strengthening of the functioning of the eu' in question here. this is all the more so when such strengthening is advocated 'on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is nothing more than an attempt to deepen the pillars of this capitalist integration: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. this is a path that, in the face of the deep crisis facing the eu, the main political families - the right and the social democrats - have been trying for some time. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, within the limits (which are obviously already broad, although not as broad as some new leaps, desired by some, might require) of the lisbon treaty, escaping the public, democratic scrutiny of the peoples, in particular by means of referendums. we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the need for its repeal. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people.
in writing. - while not disagreeing with the envisaged possibility of consulting the european economic and social committee, we reaffirm our total opposition to the lisbon treaty and its implementation, considering that it, like other instruments of european capitalist integration, should be repealed. that is why we abstained.
‒ in accordance with the rules of the lisbon treaty, the economic and social committee may be consulted by parliament whenever it deems it appropriate, and it is for parliamentary committees to request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general problems or specific questions. i support the request of the committee on constitutional affairs to consult the economic and social committee on the evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union. given the nature of its membership and as the body par excellence that promotes participatory democracy and helps to strengthen the role of civil society organisations through the establishment of a structured dialogue, i believe that its hearing will be an asset for discussion and reflection on the matter.
‒ we have no illusions whatsoever as to the meaning of the 'evolution and possible adaptation of the current institutional structure of the european union' at issue here. in the face of the profound crisis facing the process of capitalist european integration, the aim of a genuine leap forward is to create new and better conditions for deepening its axes: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, contrary to the interests and aspirations of the peoples and, of course, escaping their scrutiny. for our part, we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the institutional model which derives from it. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people. we are not opposed to consulting the european economic and social committee. but we are obviously aware - and here we denounce it - of the underlying meaning of this whole process.
‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'possible developments and adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union', given that it is in line with the analysis and evaluation contained in our joint project. this study, in addition to tracing the path traveled to date, can provide perspective and points to ways forward for the future of the european union.
‒ the european economic and social committee (eesc) was set up in 1957 as a forum for debate on matters relating to the single market. the eesc provides european interest groups, such as trade unions, employers' associations and farmers' associations, with the opportunity to formally comment on eu legislative proposals. the opinions issued are addressed to the main european institutions, namely the council, the commission and the european parliament. this request for consultation, as provided for in rule 137 of the rules of procedure, is intended to seek the views of representatives of employers, workers and other european interest groups on the possible evolution and adaptation of the current institutional structure of the european union. i voted in favour.
‒ we have serious reservations about the meaning of the 'strengthening of the functioning of the eu' in question here. this is all the more so when such strengthening is advocated 'on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is nothing more than an attempt to deepen the pillars of this capitalist integration: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. this is a path that, in the face of the deep crisis facing the eu, the main political families - the right and the social democrats - have been trying for some time. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, within the limits (which are obviously already broad, although not as broad as some new leaps, desired by some, might require) of the lisbon treaty, escaping the public, democratic scrutiny of the peoples, in particular by means of referendums. we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the need for its repeal. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people.
in the light of the above, we are in favour of the adoption of a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and we are in favour of the introduction of a new directive on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work. that's why we abstained.
‒ in accordance with the rules of the lisbon treaty, the committee of the regions may be consulted by parliament whenever it deems it appropriate, and it is for the parliamentary committees to request that the committee of the regions be consulted on general or specific problems. i support the request of the committee on constitutional affairs to consult the committee of the regions on strengthening the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty. given the nature of its membership and the fact that it is the body par excellence representing the sensitivity of regional structures and local authorities, i believe that its hearing will be an asset for discussion and reflection on the matter.
‒ we have no illusions whatsoever as to the meaning of the 'strengthening of the functioning of the eu' at issue here. this is all the more so when such strengthening is advocated 'on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a path that, in the face of the deep crisis with which the eu is grappling, the main political families right and social democracy have been rehearsing for some time. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, within the limits (which are obviously already broad, although not as broad as some new leaps, desired by some, might require) of the lisbon treaty, escaping the public, democratic scrutiny of the peoples, in particular by means of referendums. we reaffirm our opposition to the treaty of lisbon and the need for its repeal. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people. we are not opposed to consulting the committee of the regions. but we are obviously aware - and here we denounce it - of the underlying meaning of this whole process.
‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'strengthening the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty', as i consider it of vital importance to monitor, study, trace and find future solutions. the committee of the regions is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres.
‒ the committee of the regions is an advisory body representing local and regional authorities in the european union. the committee's role is to present regional and local views on european legislation by delivering opinions on commission proposals and to adopt resolutions on current political issues. the commission, the council and the parliament should also consult the committee of the regions before taking decisions on matters concerning local and regional government (e.g. employment policy, the environment, education or public health). this request for consultation, as provided for in rule 137 of the rules of procedure, is intended to gather the views of local and regional authorities on strengthening the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the treaty of lisbon. i voted in favour.
‒ we have serious reservations about the meaning of the 'strengthening of the functioning of the eu' in question here. this is all the more so when such strengthening is advocated 'on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is an attempt to deepen the pillars of this capitalist integration: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. this is a path that, in the face of the deep crisis facing the eu, the main political families - the right and the social democrats - have been rehearsing for some time. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, within the limits (which are obviously already broad, although not as broad as some new leaps, desired by some, might require) of the lisbon treaty, escaping the public, democratic scrutiny of the peoples, in particular by means of referendums. we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the need for its repeal. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people.
‒ in accordance with the rules of the lisbon treaty, the committee of the regions may be consulted by parliament whenever it deems it appropriate, and it is for the parliamentary committees to request that the committee of the regions be consulted on general or specific problems. i support the request of the committee on constitutional affairs to consult the committee of the regions on the evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union. given the nature of its membership and the fact that it is the body par excellence representing the sensitivity of regional structures and local authorities, i believe that its hearing will be an asset for discussion and reflection on the matter.
‒ we have no illusions whatsoever as to the meaning of the 'evolution and possible adaptation of the current institutional structure of the european union' at issue here. in the face of the profound crisis facing the process of capitalist european integration, the aim of a genuine leap forward is to create new and better conditions for deepening its axes: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, contrary to the interests and aspirations of the peoples and, of course, escaping their scrutiny. for our part, we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the institutional model which derives from it. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people. we are not opposed to consulting the committee of the regions. but we are obviously aware - and here we denounce it - of the underlying meaning of this whole process.
‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union', given that it is consistent with the constant analysis and evaluation of our joint project. this study will not only trace the path we have taken so far, but will also provide a perspective and a roadmap for the future.
‒ the committee of the regions is an advisory body representing local and regional authorities in the european union. the committee's role is to present regional and local views on european legislation by delivering opinions on commission proposals and adopting resolutions on current political issues. the commission, the council and the parliament should also consult the committee of the regions before taking decisions on matters concerning local and regional government (e.g. employment policy, the environment, education or public health). this request for consultation, as provided for in rule 137 of the rules of procedure, is intended to gather the views of local and regional authorities on the evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union. i voted in favour.
‒ we have serious reservations about the meaning of the 'strengthening of the functioning of the eu' in question here. this is all the more so when such strengthening is advocated 'on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is nothing more than an attempt to deepen the pillars of this capitalist integration: federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. this is a path that, in the face of the deep crisis facing the eu, the main political families - the right and the social democrats - have been rehearsing for some time. the intention is to take this deepening as far as possible, within the limits (which are obviously already broad, although not as broad as some new leaps, desired by some, might require) of the lisbon treaty, escaping the public, democratic scrutiny of the peoples, in particular by means of referendums. we reaffirm our opposition to the lisbon treaty and the need for its repeal. we reaffirm the proposal to enshrine the possibility of revoking the treaties, adapting the status of each country to the will of its people.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendments underlie three essential objectives: first, to strengthen governance systems and standards, in particular for widely used and systemically important benchmarks, and to reduce their vulnerability to manipulation and abuse; second, to increase transparency by making all benchmarks more widely available to users in order to enable informed decisions; and third, to maintain the supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks through the application of proportionate governance requirements. additional legislation should also take into account that many companies, households, investors and financial institutions depend on daily basis on benchmarks accessible across the eu and abroad in order to carry out their business, trade and investment activities, as well as to prevent risks or grant or obtain credit effectively. therefore, the stability and efficiency of markets and the overall economy also require that legislative action avoid restricting, as far as possible, the number and variety of benchmarks offered and used in the union.
‒ following the libor and euribor manipulation scandals, the european commission has indicated its intention to move forward with a legislative proposal seeking to regulate all activity related to the production and dissemination of benchmarks, with the aim of restoring market confidence. the commission proposal has chosen to treat all economic activities in the same way, which has raised criticism and concerns from various actors and sectors (in particular the raw materials markets), who have recommended the application of the principle of proportionality, based on an assessment of the transparency of the data, the sources and the complexity of the indices. as is well known, many of the benchmarks used in the markets for physical goods are calculated on the basis of transaction prices, through direct observation of the markets. but the essential question is whether these indices are credible, or, more precisely, whether they are not. who builds them and how they do it. it is the most powerful interests, whose actions are supposed to be regulated by these indices, that ultimately determine them, directly or indirectly.
‒ the manipulation of libor and foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerabilities. in response to these revelations, the eu has amended eu market abuse legislation to clarify that such manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and to incorporate this matter into the framework of criminal law. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ there are serious cases of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as libor, euribor and foreign currency benchmarks, inflicting considerable losses on consumers and investors. such manipulation contributes decisively to the poor reputation of financial institutions and to the loss of trust by citizens, demonstrating that benchmarks can be subject to conflicts of interest and have discretionary governance and regulation regimes. i am voting in favour of this report which safeguards the independence of the european central bank and the national central banks from the european system of central banks in the exercise of their powers, duties and responsibilities, and the administrators must be obliged to adopt appropriate governance mechanisms to deal with a possible conflict of interest.
‒ indices are essential for pricing crossborder transactions and facilitate the effective functioning of the internal market for a wide range of financial instruments and services. the vast majority of european citizens are therefore directly or indirectly affected by indices. currently, different benchmarks are produced by different providers using different methodologies. reference indices have in fact become public goods and must therefore be subject to strict scrutiny. it is important to maximise their benefits and to take measures to prevent any damage resulting from their manipulation. this regulation precisely introduces a common framework to ensure the high accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in the framework of financial instruments and contracts in the union, thereby contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market and to a high level of consumer and investor protection. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts advocates three key aspects: strengthening governance systems and rules, greater transparency for users of all benchmarks and access to a wide variety of benchmarks. i believe that benchmarks are fundamental to the pricing of crossborder transactions and the functioning of the internal market, especially in terms of consumer and investor protection, and it is therefore essential to ensure that they are not manipulated, making them illegal and incorporating this matter into the framework of criminal law.
‒ following the libor and euribor manipulation scandals, the european commission has indicated its intention to move forward with a legislative proposal seeking to regulate all activity related to the production and dissemination of benchmarks, with the aim of restoring market confidence. it is true that the commission proposal, by treating all economic activities in the same way, is creating great concern for those who deal with the markets for raw materials. iosco recommends that different situations be treated differently. it proposes that the principle of proportionality be applied on the basis of an assessment of the transparency of the data, the sources and the complexity of the indices. as is well known, most of the benchmarks used in the markets for physical goods are calculated on the basis of transaction prices through direct observation of the markets. in this sense, and within the risk hierarchy provided by iosco, these indicators are at the base, i.e. of minimum risk.
‒ this year will be of the utmost importance in the development agenda with the adoption of the sustainable development goals which should guide national policies and international cooperation activities over the next 15 years, succeeding the millennium development goals, with the adoption of the agreement on global action against climate change and the international conference on financing for development, which will allow for the establishment of targets and plans for financing and implementation of the post-2015 agenda. as in the past, the european union must play a leading role in these negotiations and be at the forefront of the new process of financing development. i support this report because i consider it vital to reconfirm the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to official development assistance and to insist on a partnership with other public and private partners in this worldwide endeavour. i would remind you that, in parallel with the mobilisation of resources, efforts must also be made to manage financial resources, to combat corruption and tax evasion in the countries concerned, and that development aid must always be characterised by principles of good governance and the protection of human rights, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and an agreement on global action on climate change, valid until 2030. 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, with poor health, education and living conditions, particularly in fragile states ravaged by conflict. i believe that the eradication of poverty and inequalities will only be achieved by mobilising sufficient and adequate resources for all and by specific measures for marginalised groups, such as children, women, the elderly or people with disabilities. three-quarters of the world's poorest people about 960 million people currently live in middle-income countries, with unctad estimating that developing countries' financing needs for the new sdgs are about usd 3.9 billion per year, with usd 2.5 billion currently missing per year. the eu and its member states must maintain their position as major donors of development aid, while upholding shared responsibility.
‒ the approach to development finance in this report ignores the framework of asymmetric interdependence relations typical of globalised capitalism, which generate uneven development on a global scale. hence its great and inescapable limitation. with economic inequality comes political dependence and subordination. they are the various instruments that promote the vicious circle of impoverishment, dependence and subordination. this is the case with the external debt. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. this is a question that is simply ignored by the report. the same applies to the devastating effects of the imf and world bank interventions, which drain endogenous resources from the donors, which even exceed the amount of official development assistance. official development assistance (oda) is crucial and should increase, even in line with commitments made but not fulfilled. we appreciate what the report says on this point. but just as oda alone (even at desirable levels) is not enough, so this positive aspect of the report is not enough to make it a good report. far from it.
‒ development finance is one of the key instruments the eu has at its disposal to help growth and to help eradicate poverty and inequalities. only by mobilising sufficient and appropriate financial resources for all and specific measures for marginalised groups such as children, women, the elderly or people with disabilities will we be able to successfully tackle the inequalities that still exist around the world. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid, accounting for almost 60% of global official development assistance, and this year is pivotal for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and an agreement on global action on climate change, valid until 2030. the importance of the challenge of financing the sustainable development goals (sdgs) requires a strong and comprehensive partnership and the use of all forms of financing (national, international, public, private and innovative resources) and non-financial means; private financing can complement, but not replace, public financing. i am in favour of the view that the european union and its member states, as major donors of development aid, should lead the development finance process and contribute to a credible response to development finance challenges by ensuring policy coherence for development in the context of the post-2015 agenda; and that other developing and emerging countries should follow the eu's lead.
‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and an agreement on global action on climate change, valid until 2030. the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, should therefore create the conditions for the financing and implementation of the post-2015 agenda. in fact, 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, with poor health, education and living conditions, particularly in fragile states ravaged by conflict. this resolution considers that the eu and its member states, as major donors of development aid, should lead the development finance process and contribute to a credible response to development finance challenges by ensuring policy coherence for development in the context of the post-2015 agenda. the resolution also calls for the adoption of an international initiative to improve the quality of statistics, data and information in order to monitor expenditure, investment and progress towards specific commitments and objectives. i voted in favour.
‒ i welcome and support this report for its focus on poverty eradication, human rights and gender equality. this approach can help to renew hope for the 1.5 billion people living in extreme poverty, with limited access to health and education. the report on financing for development does not solve everything, but it is a start for a new model of development based on universality. we can't compartmentalize interests. the world's problems concern us all.
‒ we subscribe to the pious intentions of this report. however, a critical reading of the current situation is necessary. the millennium development goals are far from being achieved. the contributions of the rich states are far below all the commitments. it's been that way for decades, and it's important to understand why. the reason lies in the oppressive, exploitative nature of capitalism. while pretending to be humanistic, it exploits developing countries, corrupts governments and does not hesitate to use force to defend the interests of large multinationals. we are therefore witnessing the destruction of schools built with funds from international aid, and we do not see the slightest openness to contributing to solutions that guarantee the poorest countries the right to sovereign and autonomous development. it's all conditioning, greed and self-interest. tax evasion and avoidance by multinational corporations operating in developing countries exceeds international aid. words for what?
‒ the approach to development finance in this report ignores the framework of asymmetric interdependence relations typical of globalised capitalism, which generate uneven development on a global scale. with economic inequality comes political dependence and subordination. they are the various instruments that promote the vicious circle of impoverishment, dependence and subordination. this is the case with the external debt. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. this is a question that is simply ignored by the report. the same applies to the devastating effects of the imf and world bank interventions, which drain endogenous resources from the donors, which even exceed the amount of official development assistance. official development assistance (oda) is crucial and should increase, even in line with commitments made but not fulfilled. we appreciate what the report says on this point. but just as oda alone (even at desirable levels) is not enough, so this positive aspect of the report is not enough to make it a good report.
‒ the main dimension of overall quality of healthcare is patient safety, with a culture of care safety and the management of incidents that compromise patient safety at the core. it is estimated that 8% to 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer adverse events while receiving healthcare and that about half of these events could be prevented, as they are infections associated with such care, medication-related episodes and complications during or after surgical interventions. thirty to 50 percent of patients are not taking their prescription medications or are taking them without a prescription, and it's estimated that by 2050, 10 million people will die every year from antimicrobial resistance. it is important that member states ensure, in this period of economic crisis, that health systems are not affected by austerity measures and continue to be adequately funded and, in particular, avoid the most harmful measures, such as short-term savings that will lead to high costs in the medium and long term, and focus on the continuous development of high quality and efficient health systems.
in writing. ‒ between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer adverse effects while receiving medical care, with the most common being healthcare-associated infections (hcais), medication-related events and complications arising from surgical interventions. almost half of these events could be prevented. iacs in particular is a public health problem that can be prevented through intensive hygiene and control programmes. antimicrobial resistance has been increasing in the eu for pathogenic bacteria, leading to an increase in acsi caused by multi-resistant bacteria, a burning public health problem. the report covers this subject in a comprehensive and well-documented way. it refers to the effects of the disinvestment in public health services and their professionals as a result of the so-called austerity policies and advocates the reversal of this path. while we agree with the general thrust of the report, we believe that in some areas more could have been done. this is the case for the price of medicines and their implications for access restrictions, patient safety and antimicrobial resistance (as a result of incomplete doses, for example). the same is true of the need to strengthen public capacity in the field of research and development of new medicines, with multinational pharmaceutical companies vying for primacy.
‒ at a time when one of the main consequences of austerity measures has been the reduction in health care and the conditions under which it is provided, it is important to affirm that patients have the right not to be put at risk by medical treatment and that this has to be central to the quality of health care. that's why i voted yes.
‒ the topic of patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, especially antimicrobial resistance, is certainly not unknown to anyone involved in the management of health systems or who has attended the sessions of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety in recent years. this is a subject widely discussed both by the world health organisation (who) and by european institutions such as the commission, the council and the specialised agencies (ecdc, ema, easa). this draft report is based on the need for patient safety, i.e. the freedom of the patient from actual or potential harm as a consequence of the provision of health care, to be an essential element for the quality of health systems. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, especially resistance to antimicrobial agents, are widely discussed issues both by the world health organisation (who) and by european institutions such as the commission, the council and the specialised agencies (ecdc, ema, efsa) and the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety. this draft report is based on the need for patient safety to be an essential element for the quality of health systems. i am voting in favour of the report because i believe that the patient should be the centre of treatment and not allow health systems to suffer unjustified cuts in the name of austerity.
‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance are central to the management of health systems. in fact, according to the available data, 8% to 12% of hospitalized patients suffer harm or adverse events, and it is estimated that about half of these adverse events could be avoided. on the other hand, antimicrobial resistance by pathogenic bacteria has increased worldwide, leading to an increasing prevalence of iacs and failures in the treatment of infectious diseases. this report attempts to identify the various factors that compromise patient safety and to identify the measures to be taken to ensure the highest possible standard of patient safety. i voted in favour.
‒ the european union and the european parliament itself should play an active role in the healthcare provided by its member states. improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance are key issues today. the resolution in question, in its general outline, points to gaps that may exist in the field in question and also warns of some of the problems that need to be addressed in the national health systems. all member states should invest in a national health system suited to the needs of their population. we must continue to invest in the research of new and effective medicines and, in this context, give priority to partnerships with universities.
in writing. ‒ the costs of drug-resistant infections are estimated at around €1.5 billion annually due to increased healthcare expenditure and lost productivity, whereas patients infected with resistant bacteria have to be isolated when treated in hospital and this additional provision costs more than €900 million and an additional 2.5 million days of hospital stay per year. these resistances stem from a fundamental contradiction which lies in the incompatibility between the moderate use of antibiotics and the needs of the pharmaceutical industry to maximise its profits and return on its investments. unfortunately, we haven't heard a word about this. in this way, there is no change in the drama.
in writing. ‒ between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer adverse effects while receiving medical care, with the most common being healthcare-associated infections (hcais), medication-related events and complications arising from surgical interventions. almost half of these events could be prevented. iacs, in particular, is a preventable public health problem through intensive hygiene and control programs. antimicrobial resistance has been increasing in the eu for pathogenic bacteria, leading to an increase in acsi caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria, a burning public health problem. the report covers this subject in a comprehensive and well-documented way. it refers to the effects of the disinvestment in public health services and their professionals as a result of the so-called austerity policies and advocates the reversal of this path. we voted in favour.
‒ the sectors covered by green growth provide major economic and environmental benefits to smes, which are the backbone of the european economy and are important drivers of economic growth and job creation. there is a broad consensus that green growth offers numerous advantages. but there are also many problems associated with this growth identified by the companies themselves, notably the information gap between smes and lenders in negotiating a loan. in developing programmes, instruments and initiatives, the commission must take into account the wide range of financing needs, which vary according to product, company size, technology, innovation, etc. another key point in developing green growth opportunities is the need for knowledge sharing and transfer. for these reasons, this report devotes a separate section to how smes can make the most of the available knowledge. the great potential of the green economy can only be fully exploited if the appropriate framework for research, development and innovation is established.
‒ the report begins by declaring its support for the concept of green growth, the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy, energy efficiency and resource use, waste management, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the circular flow of recycling and reuse of raw materials. it refers to the importance of the role of smes in this comprehensive framework for promoting job creation and economic growth. we're not going to disagree. these are fair objectives, which are undoubtedly opportunities for the development of a wide range of small and mediumsized enterprises. but it is clear that the concept of growth here is capitalist growth, which is by its nature unsustainable, no matter how much you try to paint it green. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus, and for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus. it called on the commission to 'relieve the fear of bankruptcy' by promoting awareness-raising and education campaigns. moreover, it challenges the rhetoric of the apologist for entrepreneurship and completely ignores the important role of the state in these areas, which if fully taken on would create different and better conditions for smes themselves.
in writing. ‒ this report does a good job of listing the challenges facing smes, but it is short on solutions. it is well known that one of the main problems facing smes is access to finance. programmes such as cosme or h2020 are essential, but more needs to be done, such as facilitating access to other types of finance such as microcredit. that is why i abstained.
‒ smes represent more than 98% of european enterprises and account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added. smes are the backbone of the european union's economy and are the key drivers of europe's long-term economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment opportunities in the 28 member states. we must support the concept of green growth and the circular economy. the opportunities arising from this cover multiple areas of significant importance, such as renewable energy sources and in particular the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy , energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction, electrification and the circular flow of recycling and reuse of materials. green growth must be part of a broader strategy to promote job creation and economic growth for smes. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european union's economy and are the engines of economic growth and job creation in the 28 member states. it should be noted that smes represent more than 98% of european enterprises, account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added. i support this report and i vote in favour of this legislative initiative because i believe that green growth is of paramount economic importance in our european economy. this is due not only to the economic activities associated with the green economy (e.g. renewable energy, forestry, waste management) but also to the amount of jobs that could be generated in the future. i would like to stress the importance of financing green initiatives, knowledge management of previously developed projects and the interest of the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme in increasingly supporting this type of economic activity.
‒ smes represent more than 98% of european enterprises and account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added, thus constituting the backbone of the eu economy and a key driver of its long-term economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment opportunities in the 28 member states. the global market for environmental goods and services is estimated to be worth €1 trillion per year and is expected to double or even triple by 2020, creating huge opportunities for european smes and for eu economic growth in general. it is therefore important to support green growth and to tackle the main problems smes are currently facing in this area. this includes creating a stronger culture of entrepreneurship, developing open and innovation-friendly standards, establishing more diversified access to finance and increasing the possibilities for knowledge sharing. i voted in favour.
‒ this report calls on policy makers to fully understand the potential of the green economy at the level of smes, as they now represent over 98% of european enterprises and account for over 67% of total employment in the union, and are one of the pillars of the european economy, long-term economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment opportunities in the 28 member states. given the importance of smes, it is essential that we are all aware of the various problems they are currently facing, whether they relate to funding, research and innovation, the acquisition of the appropriate knowledge or the existing regulatory framework. unlike multinational companies, smes often do not have the same easy access to knowledge networks to keep abreast of new technologies or to convey their message to potential customers and investors. the development of a set of guidelines to overcome some of these difficulties and to streamline and unify the various divergent national systems will undoubtedly be a very positive development.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the employment crisis and the lack of sustainability in employment, smes have a social role and added value that deserve our full attention. these companies should, as far as possible, have green or blue approaches in the case of marine companies. by combining sustainability with concepts such as the circular economy, regionalisation, knowledge, innovation, the latest digital technologies, bureaucratization, entrepreneurship and micro-credit, we will be fostering a more equitable, transparent, fair and inclusive society. i have seen several good examples of this approach in the maritime world in europe. we are facing a new generation of companies which do not seek profit at any cost, but rather the happiness and quality of life of those who lead them, of those who work in them and of those who use their services. that is the future i want for europe and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ the report supports the concept of green growth, the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy, energy efficiency and resource use, waste management, emission reduction, circular flow of recycling and reuse of materials and highlights the importance of the role of smes in this comprehensive framework for promoting job creation and economic growth. the rapporteur encourages member states to amend their bankruptcy laws 'to allow people to set up new businesses immediately after the bankruptcy of a previous company'. it goes further, calling on the commission to 'alleviate the fear of bankruptcy' by promoting awareness and education campaigns. it is therefore trying to advocate setting up one's own business, looking for business opportunities in the field of green growth and accepting bankruptcy as a risk to be taken.
‒ the report begins by declaring its support for the concept of green growth, the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy, energy efficiency and resource use, waste management, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the circular flow of recycling and reuse of raw materials. it refers to the importance of the role of smes in this comprehensive framework for promoting job creation and economic growth. we're not going to disagree. these are fair objectives, which are undoubtedly opportunities for the development of a wide range of small and mediumsized enterprises. but it is clear that the concept of growth here is capitalist growth, which is by its nature unsustainable, no matter how much you try to paint it green. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus, and for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus. the commission is asked to 'relieve the fear of bankruptcy' by promoting awareness and education campaigns. we have not been able to follow the report's logic.
the council's decision yesterday to launch a naval mission in the mediterranean under the common security and defence policy is a decisive step in the right direction, but it must be justified by the imperative of saving lives and thus preventing the principles and values on which the european project is based from being undermined. only then to dismantle the slave networks that exploit the tragedies that drive refugees and migrants to europe. it is regrettable, in this context, that some governments refuse to accept quotas for the reception of persons in need of protection. this is a long-term task, the mediterranean tragedy did not start yesterday and is a problem for all of europe and not just for a few states on the front line. it is in the strategic sense and consistency of all internal security and external action policies, including development, trade and energy supply policies, that the european union must act on all fronts to help people resolve conflicts, get rid of oppressive regimes and to tackle other causes of migration flows, such as poverty. opening legal pathways for migrants is essential to take the profit out of smugglers and give opportunities to those who are desperate for them, and a europe in demographic decline must assume that it needs immigrants. we must not delay any longer and put eunavfor mediterranean at sea. we must also do security, development and governance support work in our neighbourhood, in the south, namely libya, syria and iraq. it is shocking that there is no coordination between europeans in providing military supplies to forces in iraq and syria to train fighters against the islamic state. on the other hand, it is urgent to prepare a commitment which must be long-term. i am talking about libya where we have special responsibilities for action and omission and where we have strategic interests and even today we have a vital interest in not allowing it to become a terrorist sanctuary on our doorstep. the european effort to support capacity building, including the organisation of the security sector, should be programmed on the assumption that the un special representative, bernardino léon, can forge an agreement for a government of national unity. but if it fails and the state failure in libya continues and worsens, let us agree that we will need to intervene for our own security and defence and must now work to seek backing from the united nations security council. for this mission in the mediterranean, we are moving forward without a mandate from the security council and, despite the efforts of the high representative in new york recently, the responsibility to protect, save lives and combat the slave traders is in fact at stake, as i said. but this failure highlights the urgent need for reform of the un security council. this must be put on the european agenda: it is time to demand reform of the security council and to reclaim a mandate, a permanent seat for europe. in order to make eunavfor mediterranean operational as soon as possible, as the council wants, the member states must make available the human resources and equipment, because the union does not have its own civilian or military resources. the report i have authored and which we are going to examine today calls for a radical change in the culture of our governments. it is essential that the member states, under the guidance of the high representative, cooperate more in the field of the acquisition of military material and equipment. it is essential that they articulate their policies and weaponry options. it is essential that they invest in pooling and sharing, and that a plan of needs and objectives for joint military equipment is drawn up which actually meets the needs and which enables us as a union to meet our obligations. we must recognize that good intentions are of no use when we know in advance that it will take months before eunavfor mediterranean is operational. the price is too high. we cannot allow the illusion of sovereignty and the protectionist opacity of some governments to hold back the european union's action on a matter so fundamental to the union's collective security and credibility. we therefore ask the commission to monitor the implementation of the two internal market directives in the field of the acquisition and transfer of defence material and equipment and to require member states to comply with the new rules. for us to have a functioning internal market in this area, it is crucial that corrupt and opaque practices which undermine the sector, which prevent opportunities for cooperation, competition and technological development and which, moreover, constitute a bad return on taxpayers' money invested in national defence budgets, are purged. the proper implementation of these directives is essential for the defence industrial and technological base which, as the council also identified yesterday, is the key to the union's strategy for collective security and defence.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ms mogherini, for her substantive comments on our reports, and mine in particular on the defence markets directive implementation. i would simply like to urge a strategic direction – in the college of the commission as well – in implementing these directives, in order to avoid totally contradictory decisions, such as commissioner vestager’s recent one. on the implementation of these directives, which enable a country like mine, portugal, to go on with the dismantling of crucial portuguese shipyards that have been producing for our navy, and then rubber-stamping that in a very distorted interpretation of the directive. they also allow, or give the ‘amen’ of the commission to the selling of critical defence technology companies or even critical infrastructure, such as the port of piraeus, to companies controlled by other foreign powers, namely china. we in this parliament definitely support your endeavours to push the member states to deliver on the common financing of csdp missions, namely military missions, because this is not just about facilitating fairer burden-sharing, it is about the only way to encourage the generational forces. equally important is overcoming the bureaucratic and political barriers which prevent cooperation between member states and the union, and even among eu specialised agencies, to ensure a more synergetic use, by civilian and military csdp operations, of the existing capacities. do you know, high representative, that the european maritime safety agency, which is based in lisbon, is actually providing very crucial information for the atalanta mission? it could also do this for the mediterranean mission. yet they do not have a mandate for that. is this not stupid? should we not actually acknowledge and actually make full potential of that contribution? ultimately, i just want to make your point. indeed, we need more defence, more european defence, because facing the challenges we have no single country... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, unfortunately viktor orbán has not come here to give any clarification, let alone to confirm his commitment to human rights and european values. you have come here to throw the matter around, confusing real threats to fundamental rights in hungary with the exercise of freedom of expression and democracy. and it is absolutely deplorable that it does so with the approval of some in this parliament, including the largest political group, the european people's party. the european parliament has also called for the abolition of the death penalty, and for the abolition of the death penalty to be abolished. he can have any debate he wants in hungary, but if he does, he will do so with the political condemnation of this european parliament, and if he continues down this path of violating the charter of fundamental rights and the founding treaties of the european union, he will have the response he deserves from the european institutions.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as shadow rapporteur in the negotiation of the fourth anti-money laundering directive, i believe that it creates a more robust financial crime regime, to which i hope member states will bring in capable and sufficient human and technical resources. the most important new thing is the creation of central registers with detailed information on the beneficial ownership of all corporate structures in the european union, which this parliament has been fighting for. i must say, however, that it is disappointing that in the aftermath of so many financial scandals the european union is falling short of the promises of transparency, as member states have blocked the parliament's proposal to ensure a single system of public access to the register. instead, it will be up to member states to decide on who and under what conditions journalists, researchers, ngos and citizens can access data, creating 28 different access systems, which diminishes the relaxing scope of the directive. furthermore, trusts are outside this regime, with no public access to their ultimate beneficiaries. the link between this legislation and the fight against tax fraud and evasion is clear. the creation of a public register can be a powerful tool in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion by multinational companies. it is a matter of concern to all european citizens, especially those most affected by the economic and financial crime that the crisis has exposed in recent years. a public register, even without changing tax laws, would certainly help to expose fictitious and opaque corporate schemes and structures used to avoid and evade taxes. i would like to call on the member states to transpose the directive, ensuring wide, effective and rapid public access and to establish efficient cooperation mechanisms. we must also promote this registration pattern in third countries, with a concerted diplomatic strategy in the ttip negotiations, in the g20 and elsewhere, if we are to put an end to tax havens once and for all. the speaker accepts to answer a question on a 'blue card' rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure
blue-card answer.– i believe this because there is denial and the lack of will from member states and also from the commission to actually tackle the absolute need for tax harmonisation, without which we do not have real competition, healthy competition in the internal market. that is exactly the job we are trying to achieve through our tax committee, and i am pretty sure that if we in parliament do our job we will be able to make that case with governments and the commission.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking the team of rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for the effort and quality of their work which made it possible to reach such an important agreement, which was reached during the italian presidency. this is a key issue in preventing tax fraud and evasion and, above all, the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. the identification of the beneficial owners, or the true owners, of business transactions in the european union is a key step in this direction. but the socialist and democratic group is particularly pleased to see the establishment of a public and european register of these beneficial owners, although it regrets that access to such information is no longer free or organized at european level. in fact, when legislation limits access to such a register to the recognition of a so-called legitimate interest, a concept which is vague, the legislation ultimately leaves it to the member states with the least transparency to seriously limit access to that information in practice. the additional possibility is that member states may further restrict access to such information in cases considered to be exceptional, in particular where the beneficial owner is a minor or disabled, but also where there is a risk for the beneficial owner to be a victim of fraud, blackmail, kidnapping, violence or intimidation, risks which are very difficult to anticipate accurately. so, in summary, the legislation we are about to vote on is an essential step, a fundamental improvement on the road to transparency, but it is a first step. in the areas where it was not possible to go any further, the need for compromise prevailed in a text which, as i said, is clearly positive as a whole. it is an important step and we now trust that the member states will follow suit... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am not saying that the european union should be a political union, but i am saying that it should be a political union. let us see, the decision to cut wages and social benefits by pressuring national budgets, there is no problem here, there is agreement. that countries are held hostage to the usury of banks and loans is also beyond doubt. the ships are now being sent to libya, the military means are being sent, it's a month to decide everything quickly, they are already underway. now, protecting and elevating the rights of working women by guaranteeing them a minimum of 20 weeks' full pay is not that much to ask either, here we wait, we wait... there is an uncomfortable silence, but it is a silence which will quickly end an administrative procedure, as the commissioner has just said she would carry out. but this is a political decision, not an administrative decision. the commission can insist on this if it so wishes. and when the commissioner says she is willing to make a fresh start, a fresh start, what exactly does that mean, a fresh start? because if this proposal was non-negotiable for the council, does a fresh start mean diminishing the rights of working women? it is because this does not seem to us to be a fresh start, it does seem to us to be a step backwards in relation to the position adopted by the european parliament, which, moreover, you and the european institutions say is the home of democracy. but now it seems that it is not the house of democracy, because when it does not work, it is no longer the house of democracy. we are not the ones who judge you, it is the working mothers and the working women who want to be mothers who will judge this policy of two weights and two measures, when to give social rights you see well what you do.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much for the discussion that has just taken place here, because it is a source of very strong inspiration for me, but also of what in english is called encouragement and for which i don't have a very good word in czech. i've been thinking a lot about what a lot of you said when you said that this was women's rights legislation. i ask you, is having children a woman's pleasure? is it a luxury that women can afford to have or not have? is having children something that women need, or is it something that society needs? how is it that women spend so much of their lives, not just during childcare, but throughout their lives, working for free? and is it the work they need, or is it the work society needs? i believe that we have to find a new paradigm for this new beginning, which i have committed myself to come with, that looking at this area only from the position of women's rights is the only one. i think, and i feel it in myself, when i promote and advocate for gender equality, that the arguments that talk about fair equality, about non-discrimination, about women's rights, those arguments kind of fall under the table, because they're just gender issues. and i think that's something that the maternity leave directive has failed to do, and has failed to do for a number of years. because for so many years, that directive hasn't been implemented and approved. we all know that one of the reasons we're talking about this today in relation to the withdrawal is the length of the lockdown. why don't they make the case for women's equality and non-discrimination, and instead, it seems to me, they make the economic case? that's a philosophical question, perhaps, but i'm prepared to use those arguments. someone here said it was a marxist argument. i don't know, but to me, it's a cynical argument that we need women to give birth to taxpayers. but it is! it's a cynical, unfair argument, but it's a powerful one when you're working with it. but the other economic argument is this: women have too much on their shoulders, and by having this burden, they are already holding back the european economy, they cannot participate in it as much, they cannot contribute to growth, they cannot participate in work. so the situation we are in today is actually a brake on the european economy. let's please use all possible arguments, including those economic ones, but with the strong awareness that those arguments that emphasize fairness and equality are and should be stronger. now to the directive itself. of course we have two options, and we still have them, to push through the directive that has been here since 2008, a directive that - and i will now quote mrs aren - solves at least something and before anything new. i agree that if we enforce this directive, we have something that will bring better protection to women mothers. and maybe ultimately better social acceptance, although it's a little strong, maybe, to ask this from the directive. however, it might be easier for me as commissioner to try to persuade some member states, although there is a large majority, to change their position. i have tried to get this directive to the council and to reverse the blockage, not because it is easier for me, but because i agree with mrs aren and many others that we should at least have something. the other option is to come up with something new. i just want to say one thing about the directive before i start talking about this new thing that many of you say we don't know what it is. i myself, as soon as i joined the commission, had the impact of the maternity leave directive analysed on growth and employment and found that legislation of this kind did not have the direct, strong impact. so that's more of a purely economic statement. secondly, i have to say that since 2008 a number of member states have already adopted legislation that brings stronger protection to women, and that was perhaps one of the reasons why perhaps in the council but i do not want to speak for the council and frankly i am glad that i do not have to speak for the council here today the directive was blocked. what's the "new" one? it's a very complex matter. i have ambition, and that's why we're planning to withdraw the directive, to bring in something that's stronger, more ambitious in two ways. because we're trying to address work-life balance throughout life, not just during motherhood, and we want to bring men into family care and into this model of shared care. in other words, for men to have that luxury, now take it a little bit too far, stay home and join in the care of family members. meanwhile, women have the luxury of doing so, and the result is a widening gap in the economic status and poverty of women in europe. so it is a complex matter when we talk about reconciliation of private and professional life, we are not only interfering with the area of non-discrimination, but we are also interfering with labour and family law, we are also facing very different attitudes in the member states, which stem from cultural traditions and from the different status of women in the member states, which are really deeply rooted. i myself come from a country where the prevailing view is that if a woman goes too early from child to work, she's a bad mother, and that's judgmental. i think in some other countries it's the opposite. so we're dealing with this complex diversity within europe, and last but not least, we need to do a very good legal analysis of the competences that the european commission has. because, as has been said many times in this house, these are shared competences which we do not wish to go beyond and violate the principle of subsidiarity. so when, uh, did the question come up, when do we come up with a proposal? we are working on a new proposal based on an analysis of the situation, on fresh data, and we are working on it with marianne thyssen, who is here, who is in charge of employment, and of course we will also be working with first vice-president timmermans and vice-president dombrovskis, because the issue is clearly linked to work and social dialogue. so i don't want to go into specific data here, but i can realistically see that in the second half of this year we could have a preliminary proposal that would go into the impact assessment of legislation, the so-called impact assessment. i thank you for your patience in listening to this long exposé, but i felt it necessary to make a further statement and i look forward to working with you. i feel a strong motivation here to address this issue and i think we all understand that this new legislation is really about bringing about social change, not just what we think is important here, which is improving conditions for european mothers. because we need rules not just for mothers, but for europe, for its growth. thank you for your attention.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, a lot of criticism has been levelled at the council during the debate tonight; i shall disagree. for more than seven years, we have been trying to find support for this file, and the lack of support for the current legislative proposal by the commission should not be interpreted as a lack of will to protect the rights of working parents. actually, as a representative of a member state offering a generous system of paid parental leave where the parents can choose who will take care of the child – the mother or the father – and the rights to stay home are for 18 months, i can assure you of our strong commitment to the fundamental principle. what is at the heart of the problem is a lack of support for the very concrete legislative proposal. so let us not overdramatise the situation. we welcome the commissionʼs intention to come up with a better proposal that would be more realistic and more modern. i would like to use this opportunity to thank ms corazza bildt and ms morin-chartier for their comments and position in wanting to have a modern parental leave system and to avoid pointing fingers, which will not help to find a solution. actually, the council understands very well the importance of parental leave provisions for europeʼs families, and maternity leave should not be seen in isolation. other helpful measures can include, for example, accessible care services with flexible working hours, paternity leave and so on, as well as a more equal sharing of care responsibilities between women and men. flexible working arrangements and a reconciliation-friendly culture are also relevant in our modern societies. there are plenty of ideas to be inspired by. to make a child needs a woman and a man, so why do we speak only of maternity leave in the context of childbirth? i am worried by the rhetoric used in the context of this debate. men must have an equal right to participate in the upbringing of children. so i would like to use this opportunity to invite madam commissioner, when working on the new proposal, to prepare a good modern one where both parents can share responsibility and can use the opportunity to take care of the child. i think that could be of real use in the european union. the council is a co-legislator whose opinion on the current proposal is clear. hence, we have to make a choice: we can continue to disagree on the existing legislative proposal for another five years or we can try to find an agreement on the basis of a new proposal. the council has made its choice. we are looking forward to having an agreement in the foreseeable future. i believe all parties concerned can and will contribute to positive developments in this important policy area.
in writing. the case of the maternity directive lays bare the state of this european union and what its people can expect. it is the instrument and vehicle for imposing deep social setbacks wage cuts, attacks on the social functions of the state in health, education and social security, reduction of social and labour rights, privatisations, etc. at the same time, it is a buffer to any measure, however small, aimed at improving living conditions; a step forward, however modest, towards social progress. the council, which is so ready to back down, fails to agree to increase the protection of working mothers and their children by guaranteeing them a minimum of 20 weeks of fully paid maternity leave. in the face of this, the european commission (which claimed to be the bearer of a new progressive impulse) decided to throw its proposal into the trash and disguise the decision as a purely administrative act.
mr president, commissioner, the integration of disabled people into the labour market is one of the greatest challenges facing social and labour policies, in a context where the employment rate for disabled people is 20% lower than for other people. in addition to our ethical and social obligation to ensure the application of the un convention, in order to remove the discrimination and barriers which prevent the exercise of their rights on an equal footing with others, we must develop differentiated mechanisms in the most diverse areas. that is why i urge the european commission to make an adjustment in all its regulations, platforms and instruments to ensure fair treatment of these people. special attention should be given to education, with the urgent need to develop early intervention programmes in all member states and to provide them with the human, material and financial means that can lead to effective development of skills and to minimise existing constraints, ensuring that all children with disabilities receive an inclusive education, even before pre-school education, in a curriculum appropriate to their learning capacities. but at a time when we have the largest research and innovation programme, it is important that we increase awareness of their opportunities and that we focus on the areas of science and technology applied to disability. the european disabled must no longer have to turn to centres of excellence outside the european union. the mere differentiation of conditions is insufficient today. our aim must be, above all, to ensure that this group of people enjoys the full enjoyment of human rights in an inclusive society, and the protection and assistance they and their families need to fully and equitably exercise the rights of persons with disabilities.
mr president, transparency of accountability, which also derives from the obligations of signatories to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in the functioning of the european institutions themselves is essential. and it is necessary that, unlike what exists today, this information should be accessible to all and clear. but it's not enough! to be consistent with this convention would be, for example, not to encourage and support cuts in public education systems that affect people with disabilities. in my country, portugal, the number of special education teachers has been drastically reduced under the troika and post-troika policies, which are one and the same, and in many schools there is not a single teacher. there are students who, for lack of support in school, are advised to stay home, finding their parents completely desperate and with no solution. they are children and young people who have been deprived of the right to education. does this have anything to do with the convention which is defended here so much, at least in words?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, mr pittella has spoken to us here in a spirit of solidarity. i would like to ask you whether your concept of solidarity includes sending warships to the mediterranean, in addition to air and land means, in violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of sovereign states and international law to sink ships intended to carry migrants. and what do you say about the european council on refugees and exiles, which warned of the risk of more victims with these solutions, whether by sinking boats with immigrants or by those being forced to seek other, riskier solutions to reach europe? is this your idea of solidarity? is this your group's concept of solving the problem at the root?
mr president, i would say that we have four main plans here. the first, and essential, is the humanitarian plan, and i think that the european union must spare no effort to save lives and to treat with dignity all those who arrive at its borders. that's the close-up. the second plan is the asylum plan and i must say that this common asylum plan and even the idea of a common migration policy and even a common demographic policy in the european union are good ideas. it is important that the effort be shared by all, even if this requires the allocation of european funds. but i think that countries, like mine, that take in fewer refugees need to be open to taking in more and sharing this effort with others that have more. finally, there is the problem of migration, migration for economic reasons, and although i believe that there should be openness, common criteria and a common policy, there must also be reasonableness in the criteria. we cannot, of course, open the borders all at once, quite so easily. it would be impossible, it would be catastrophic, it would be bad for those who come, it would be bad for those who are! and finally, a reaction against the traffickers, which must be a military reaction and in which, yes, the council, for once, was right.
mr president, the european agenda on migration is a start to respond to a problem which is european and which requires solidarity. the naval operation for the mediterranean must have as its priority the saving of lives and then the destruction of the smuggling networks. and destroying the nets is not destroying the boats, it's destroying their profits. this requires immediate measures to open safe and legal pathways for those in need of protection and for immigration, and in the long term, coherent external action against the causes that make people flee their countries. we urgently need to share the effort of welcoming all member states. my country, portugal, can and must do more. it is therefore regrettable that some member states have rejected the commission's proposal for a host distribution scheme. you must not be able to stop this scheme. turning our backs on those fleeing war, oppression and persecution is more than a violation of international law and treaties, it is immoral and unworthy.
the commission started badly with the 10-point action programme, but has corrected its approach and the agenda for migration is an actionable, multi-faceted document that reinforces european solidarity. it includes measures to address the root causes of problems and the need to articulate responses in the countries of origin. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the activation of the article 78 clause and the reinforcement of poseidon and triton, which i have long advocated, are positive! unfortunately, we are dependent on the will of the member states, which have so far failed. i therefore renew my appeal for the provision of life-saving means, for the provision of means to go beyond 30 nautical miles, for the provision of assistance to the member states which are on the front line of taking in people who are fleeing. and if it is necessary to fight the traffickers, i have serious doubts that the preventive shooting down of boats in libyan territory is effective and safe for refugees. the lack of will on the part of the member states prevents us from acting effectively and creates the impression that we are doing nothing because the member states are not doing anything.
in writing. the numbers are alarming. in the first months of this year 35,000 people managed to reach the european union by sea, but unfortunately over 2,000 people lost their lives. according to the world organization for migration, since 2000, we're looking at a loss of 22,000 people. we are facing a real humanitarian catastrophe. we have to move from words and intentions to action. we need a stronger common asylum policy, including a european refugee resettlement scheme and a relocation system for emergency situations. we have to fight against the criminal networks and the traffickers. we need to improve policy on legal migration. we need more europe and a europe of greater solidarity. i welcome the efforts of the european commission, particularly in the naval military mission, to combat the traffickers operating in libya. member states must now act and participate by making resources and manpower available. i believe that this initiative should also be discussed within the multilateral institutions, because it is a world problem. the question of the thousands of migrants adrift in the seas of south east asia must not be forgotten
in writing. other two weeks ago, the european commission, with the embarrassment of being blamed for letting thousands of people die in the mediterranean, launched the so-called "european agenda for migration 2015". the programme proposes to triple the funds for operation triton and the frontex programme, which are earmarked for the control of the eu's external borders and not for the rescue and integration of migrants and refugees. it proposes to strengthen the cooperation of police-type institutions such as eurojust and europol with eu asylum policy, in particular for fingerprinting of migrants' dna and for repatriating all those who are not considered to be in need of special protection. instead of solving the problem by creating channels for safe and regular migration, including for workers and unskilled migrants and for people seeking family reunification, as advocated by the un high commissioner for refugees, numerous social organisations and everyone with a little common sense and humanity, it intends to revise the blue card directive, designed to regulate skilled labour force immigration exclusively according to the needs of companies in the eu, i.e. by selecting desirable migrants from undesirable.
‒ i agree with the calendar of parliament's sittings for 2016, hence my vote in favour.
‒ in accordance with the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the calendar of the european parliament's sittings for 2016 has been presented. i voted in favour.
- we have nothing to object to.
‒ the new financing instrument for development cooperation for the period 2014-2020 has a budget of eur 241 million for south africa. in addition to economic cooperation, the agreement contains other provisions covering a range of areas of cooperation which are of great relevance for development, such as social cooperation, environmental cooperation, particularly in the field of climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering, cooperation in the field of health and, in particular, the fight against aids. the revised agreement introduces a number of significant changes in the field of development to the original agreement. democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law, cooperation on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have become essential elements of the agreement. factors which i consider to be positive and which deserve my approval.
‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdaa), signed by the eu and south africa in 1999, aims to strengthen their cooperation in a number of areas. the objectives of the acdc shall be to strengthen dialogue between the parties, to support south africa in its economic and social transition process, to promote regional cooperation, to promote south africa's economic integration into the southern african and world economies, and to expand and liberalise trade in goods, services and capital between the parties. since its signing, the agreement has been revised several times to broaden its scope. this report seeks to approve an additional protocol to introduce into the acdc some linguistic adaptations necessary due to the accession of croatia. although this revision is of an eminently technical nature, we cannot ignore one of the general objectives of this agreement: the progressive establishment of a free trade area (fta) for the free movement of goods. we are well aware of the consequences of these trade agreements. our position on free trade and the deregulation of trade is also well known.
‒ the cbca between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of south africa, on the other, was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004. it was revised in kleinmond, south africa, on 11 september 2009. this proposal is only intended to ratify the protocol in view of the recent accession of croatia to the eu.
‒ the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, was signed in pretoria in 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004, and was revised in kleinmond, south africa, on 11 september 2009. i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council decision to approve the additional protocol to the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement in the light of the accession of croatia to the eu, on behalf of the union and its member states. the additional protocol was approved by the council on 9 october 2014 and by south africa at the end of december 2014.
‒ the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation (tdca) between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004. it was last updated on 11 september 2009 in kleinmond, south africa. this agreement aims to strengthen bilateral cooperation in a range of areas and pursues several objectives, including: strengthening bilateral dialogue; supporting south africa in its economic and social transition process; promoting regional cooperation and the economic integration of the country into southern africa and the world economy; and expanding and liberalising bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. following the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu on 1 july 2013, it was necessary to ensure the full participation of that member state in bilateral relations with south africa. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa to take account of croatia's accession to the eu.
‒ this is an additional protocol which aims to introduce into the agreement on trade, development and cooperation (tdca) certain technical and linguistic adaptations which are necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the eu and its becoming a contracting party alongside the other member states.
‒ the objectives of the acdc are to strengthen dialogue between the parties, to support south africa in its economic and social transition process, to promote regional cooperation, to promote south africa's economic integration into southern africa and the world economy, and to expand and liberalise trade in goods, services and capital between the parties. since its signing, the agreement has been revised several times to broaden its scope. this report seeks to approve an additional protocol to introduce into the acdc some linguistic adaptations necessary due to the accession of croatia. this revision is technical, but we cannot ignore one of the general objectives of this agreement: the progressive establishment of a free trade area (fta) for the free movement of goods.
‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdaa), signed by the eu and south africa in 1999, aims to strengthen their cooperation in a number of areas. the objectives of the acdc shall be to strengthen dialogue between the parties, to support south africa in its economic and social transition process, to promote regional cooperation, to promote south africa's economic integration into the southern african and world economies, and to expand and liberalise trade in goods, services and capital between the parties. since its signing, the agreement has been revised several times to broaden its scope. this report seeks to approve an additional protocol to introduce into the acdc some linguistic adaptations necessary due to the accession of croatia. although this revision is of an eminently technical nature, we cannot ignore one of the general objectives of this agreement: the progressive establishment of a free trade area (fta) for the free movement of goods. we are well aware of the consequences of these trade agreements. our position on free trade and the deregulation of trade is also well known.
‒ the fight against terrorism is unfortunately back on the media agenda. this initiative, however, is an expression of the continuous and structured work that the european union has been carrying out in combating this phenomenon. in fact, and despite the fact that it was a long and technically complex process, this report approves the fourth revision of directive 2005/60/ec. it aims to adapt the legislative framework to the increasing complexity of the financial system by increasing transparency and control of transactions. in the fight against terrorism, the financing of terrorism is unavoidable and this amendment is therefore essential. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs we have paid particular attention to the balance - always necessary - between security and the right to data protection of european citizens. i believe that both rights are guaranteed and that the union will be more secure, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ eu countries should maintain a central register with information on the beneficial owners of companies, foundations and other structures, so that it is possible to identify the people who are actually behind these entities. this directive aims to tighten up the fight against tax crimes and the financing of terrorism. the new european rules require that central registers be set up and maintained in all eu countries on the beneficial owners of companies, foundations, trusts and other entities. member states should ensure that such information is stored in a register located outside the companies, which may use a central database containing information on beneficial owners, the commercial register or another central register. over the next four years, the commission should assess the conditions and technical procedures to ensure the secure and effective interconnection of central registers through a european central platform. i voted in favour.
‒ this new money laundering directive requires eu countries to maintain a central register with information on the beneficial owners of companies, foundations and other structures so that the people behind these entities can be identified. the directive also strengthens the duty of supervision and the obligation of banks, inter alia, to report suspicious transactions to customers. this directive on money laundering aims to strengthen the fight against tax crimes and terrorist financing. the new european rules require that central registers be set up and maintained in all eu countries on the beneficial owners of companies, foundations, trusts and other entities. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in order to facilitate criminal activities, money launderers and terrorist financiers are trying to take advantage of the free movement of capital associated with the integrated financial area, and it is essential that certain coordination measures are adopted at eu and international level. i therefore vote in favour of adopting this act at first reading in accordance with the council's position.
‒ this legislative resolution approves the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. the directive aims to ensure that member states ensure that, in their respective territories, central registers, trade or company registers have data on users of financial products. such information should be accessible to competent authorities as well as to the general public so that it can be demonstrated whether users have a legitimate interest in the financial applications. the aim is to strengthen the internal market, make financial transfers more transparent, support the fight against terrorism and organised crime and strengthen the eu's financial system. i voted in favour.
‒ money laundering and terrorist financing are all too often linked, endangering the integrity of the functioning, reputation and stability of the financial system. the legal framework needs to be continuously adapted in an attempt to contain this threat and protect the financial system. this will include ensuring consistency of national laws and flexibility in their implementation, ensuring that they are adapted to new forms of threat and in line with international measures.
‒ in the face of public scandals over tax evasion and money laundering, the eu is obliged to do something to respond to public outrage. what we're saying is that these scandals are not just abuses or mismatches in the system. they are the concrete expression of the contradictions of a system which represents at the moment the greatest obstacle to the development of mankind. the creation of the illusion that it is possible to create a control mechanism which will enable the system to be moralised and brought into line with the aspirations of humanity is to mislead the citizens of europe. as we asked. consider this example. the european commission has declared war on tax havens. what is surprising is that the same european commission approved last march the iv tax benefit scheme of the international wood business centre, thus extending the existence of the madeira free trade zone until 2027.
‒ the aim of this proposal is to review regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 on information on the payer accompanying transfers of funds (hereinafter referred to as the 'transfer of funds regulation') in order to improve the traceability of payments and to ensure that the eu framework remains fully consistent with international standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. ‒ massive flows of illicit money can undermine the stability and reputation of the financial sector, threaten the single market and international development. tax evasion and non-disclosure and concealment mechanisms can be used as money laundering strategies and it is important that measures are taken at european level to combat illicit activities. i am voting in favour of the measures presented which aim to achieve full traceability of transfers of funds, to investigate money laundering and to detect the financing of terrorism. it is also necessary to ensure the transmission of information throughout the payment chain and to provide for the establishment of a system requiring payment service providers to ensure that transfers of funds are accompanied by information on the payer and the payee.
‒ this legislative resolution approves the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the regulation aims to improve the traceability of payments and the prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing when funds are transferred. to this end, it aims to eliminate areas where transparency gaps still persist, by ensuring, inter alia, access to information on the payer; the extension of the scope of action to credit and debit cards and mobile phones and digital devices; the verification of the identity of the payee; and the strengthening of the sanctioning powers of the competent authorities and the publication of sanctions. i voted in favour of the motion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. due to the constant technological evolution at the disposal of criminals, which allows or facilitates new forms of money laundering, a permanent review of the ways of acting at international level is necessary.
‒ the directive proposes to raise the level of customer due diligence to be exercised in relation to 'politically exposed persons', in particular by requiring that such persons, as well as their family members and closest collaborators, be subject to enhanced customer due diligence procedures. the pps will now include not only 'foreign' individuals but also 'domestic' individuals who have been entrusted with prominent public functions. the proposed directive provides for more stringent rules and more specific rules and procedures for the identification of the beneficial owners of companies or other legal persons or trusts, although the definition of beneficial owner remains unchanged. in addition, companies or other legal persons or trusts will be required to keep records relating to the identification of their beneficial owners. these are positive measures but they are not convincing and they create the illusion that it is possible to reform an unreformable system which will certainly find ways to turn these regulations into the next scandal.
‒ this regulation contains some improvements over the existing legislation which should be highlighted. in the case of the latter, however, workers are looked down upon and reduced to the status of mere creditors who are not granted credit privileges and whose credits are not given any specific guarantees. similarly, the regulation does not provide unequivocally for the identification, methods of selection and duties of workers' representatives in the proceedings to which it applies and thus jeopardises the exercise of their rights to be informed, to be consulted and, more generally, to participate actively in such proceedings. moreover, the way in which the regulation defines the centre of the debtor company's main interests, the location of which is decisive for the choice of the member state in which the main insolvency proceedings may be opened, does not preclude such a location from being deliberately chosen because it has a legislative environment favourable to the interests of shareholders and thus unfavourable to those of employees, which provides incentives for member states to use their company law as a tool of legislative competition to the detriment of the rights of employees.
‒ this proposal amends council regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings (hereinafter referred to as the 'insolvency regulation' or 'the regulation'). the general objective of the review of the insolvency regulation is to enhance the efficiency of the european regulatory framework in the resolution of cross-border insolvency cases in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience during economic crises. this objective is linked to the eu's current policies to promote economic recovery and sustainable growth, a higher investment rate and the preservation of jobs, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this matter relates to the provisions of council regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings. the proper functioning of the internal market requires that insolvency proceedings with cross-border effects be conducted efficiently and effectively. such cases occur when the insolvent's assets, liabilities, etc. are situated in more than one member state, or even when the insolvent is subject to the legal systems of several member states. insolvency laws differ significantly between member states. the current regulation does not standardize or harmonize insolvency situations, but rather regulates situations of conflict between the legal systems of different member states. i am voting in favour of this recommendation, as i support the establishment of a crossborder insolvency procedure.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution approves the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings. cross-border insolvency occurs where the assets or liabilities of a debtor are located in more than one state or where the debtor is subject to the jurisdiction of more than one member state. the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings aims to make insolvency proceedings more efficient and effective with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and its resilience in economic crisis situations. to this end, it proposes, inter alia, to extend the scope of application to debt adjustments and reorganisations; to clarify the rules of jurisdiction and improve the procedural framework for determining jurisdiction; and to lay down detailed rules on cooperation between courts and liquidators. i voted in favour.
‒ this recommendation aims to establish a set of procedures to improve the efficiency of crossborder insolvency resolution, while ensuring the fluidity of the internal market and resilience to economic crises. with the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business, clarification of procedures is a priority.
‒ this report reformulates the regulation on insolvency proceedings. the main objective is to review regulation 1346/2000 on transnational insolvencies. the regulation applies to public collective insolvency proceedings, including interim proceedings, based on the insolvency act and in which, for the purposes of recovery, debt adjustment, reorganisation or liquidation, the insolvency proceedings are conducted in accordance with the insolvency law.
‒ the purpose of this report is to reformulate the insolvency procedure regulation. the main objective is to review regulation 1346/2000 on transnational insolvencies. this text is the result of negotiations with the council. there being no amendment to reject it, the president declared it approved. the regulation applies to public collective insolvency proceedings, including interim proceedings, based on the insolvency act, in which, for the purposes of recovery, debt adjustment, reorganisation or liquidation: the debtor is deprived of all or part of his assets; an insolvency practitioner is appointed; the business is placed under the control and supervision of a court or a temporary stay of enforcement is ordered. in cases where there is only a probability of insolvency, it was decided in the negotiations that the aim should be to avoid the debtor's bankruptcy or the cessation of his activity, which we consider to be positive. as far as workers' credits are concerned, nothing has changed, since they are not granted credit privileges, which we consider to be negative.
‒ this draft resolution establishes a system of self-certification, within the framework of the duty of care in the supply chains of importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold from conflict and high-risk areas, thus reducing the illegal financing of armies and other armed groups in conflict areas. the draft regulation gives european importers the possibility to step up their efforts to ensure transparent supply chains when trading legitimately with companies and other actors in conflict-affected countries. to increase accountability, improve the transparency of its supply chains and facilitate responsible sourcing, the eu intends to publish annual lists of responsible companies. with over 400 importers, the eu is among the largest markets for tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold.
in writing. ‒ persistent global shortages of raw materials are at the root of many internal and regional conflicts, crimes against humanity, interference, and ongoing violations of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, often with the complicity of international organisations and foreign powers interested in maintaining control of resources. despite the obvious limitations of such mechanisms, we acknowledge that it may be relevant to discuss mechanisms for the certification of importers of minerals from conflict and high-risk areas, by creating traceability mechanisms that allow the identification of raw materials originating from these areas. the original proposal covered only a part of the marketed minerals and did not go beyond the first link in the value chain, deliberately forgetting the myriad of end products and intermediates where these raw materials are incorporated. a proposed amendment adopted during the vote (against the right-wing position of parliament and the european commission) has bypassed these limitations, broadening the range of raw materials covered and covering other links in the value chain, which are also subject to traceability rules, thus eliminating an ineffective and perverse aspect of the original proposal. we have voted in favour of these amendments, although other restrictions remain.
‒ unlike the commission and council proposal, the final report sets out a system of mandatory traceability of the origin of minerals from conflict or high-risk areas, which is why i voted in favour.
‒ this proposal aims to make it more difficult to finance the activities of armed groups in conflict and high-risk areas through the exploitation and trade of minerals. the main objectives of the proposed regulation are to prevent profits from the trade in minerals from being used to finance armed conflict, to promote responsible sourcing of these minerals by companies and to favour legitimate channels of trade. the minerals concerned - tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold - are used, for example, in the automotive, construction, electrical and electronic industries and are present in consumer products used by many europeans, such as computers, printers, washing machines and refrigerators. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the aim of this draft regulation is to break the vicious circle between mining, trade in minerals and the financing of armed conflict by establishing a european self-certification system for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. self-certification requires eu importers of these metals and their ores to meet the duty of care - i.e. not to cause adverse effects on the ground - by controlling and managing their purchases and sales in accordance with the five steps prescribed in the oecd due diligence guidance. the regulation also allows eu importers to further their current efforts to ensure fair supply chains by establishing legitimate trade relations with operators in conflict-affected countries. i voted in favour.
‒ as s&d president gianni pittella said, 'all those who fight for respect for human rights have won, and they must always prevail over any multinational interests'. the proposal increases the guarantee that the eu's import of certain minerals from conflict zones will not fund armed militias that commit human rights abuses. importers will be certified and obliged to comply with certain rules under penalty of a fine.
‒ i fully support the creation of a european market free from complicity in bloody conflicts. i believe that if producers and consumers unite for a responsible mineral market in the european space, we will be closer to breaking the link between mining and trading of minerals and the financing of conflicts on a global scale. i believe, however, that the winkler report's proposals still fall short of contributing to the truly ambitious legislation needed to eliminate the presence of 'conflict minerals' in the european union. legislation which imposes a duty of care only on refiners and smelters has too limited an impact. effective mechanisms are needed along the entire production chain, from the importer of the raw material to the final consumer. a chain-wide certification system should be implemented, making all actors responsible for the reliability of the information provided to the final consumer. i therefore voted in favour of extending the duty of care to all companies operating in the minerals market, including companies down the supply chain.
‒ the current and increasing persistent shortage of raw materials at global level is obvious. important mineral resources with restricted distribution on a planetary scale are in short supply. and it is no coincidence that some of the largest reserves are located in countries ravaged by internal, regional conflicts, crimes against humanity, interference, permanent violations of their sovereignty and territorial integrity, almost always with the complicity of international organizations and foreign powers interested in maintaining control of resources. this is the case in the great lakes region. it is appropriate to discuss mechanisms for the certification of importers of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, by establishing traceability mechanisms to identify raw materials originating from these areas. however, this proposal, which covers only a part of the marketed minerals and does not go beyond the first link in the value chain, deliberately ignores the myriad of final and intermediate products in which these raw materials are incorporated. he doesn't deserve our credit.
‒ i voted in favour of the iuliu winkler report on self-certification of importers of certain materials from the conflict and high-risk zone, in the belief that my vote contributed to protecting people's rights as well as defending the industry of the european union.
in writing. ‒ persistent global shortages of raw materials are at the root of many internal and regional conflicts, crimes against humanity, interference, and ongoing violations of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, often with the complicity of international organisations and foreign powers interested in maintaining control of resources. despite the obvious limitations of such mechanisms, we acknowledge that it may be relevant to discuss mechanisms for the certification of importers of minerals from conflict and high-risk areas, by creating traceability mechanisms that allow the identification of raw materials originating from these areas.
‒ the directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment limits, inter alia, the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment. the extension of exemption 39 concerns two different applications of cadmium quantum dots: one concerns the use in solid state lighting and the other concerns display systems. the commission explicitly states that quantum dot leds (with and without cadmium) for lighting are not yet available and acknowledges that their positive environmental impact could therefore not be demonstrated. this delegated directive does not fulfil the conditions set out and the justification given for exemption 39 (b) is based on an outdated situation regarding the feasibility of substituting cadmium in quantum dots.
‒ this resolution objects to the directive amending, for the purpose of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu as regards an exemption for cadmium in lighting and display lighting applications. in january 2015, the european commission proposed a delegated act extending the lifetime of cadmium in televisions until june 2018. the commission is thus reintroducing cadmium on the eu market, as manufacturers had already removed it from the lighting and backlighting applications of cadmium-based monitors in light of the expiry of this exemption in july 2014. the commission justified this by stating that 'cadmium-free quantum dots are not technically available yet'. however, according to the commission's explanatory memorandum, for one of the applications, there are no products on the market using quantum dots (cd and cdlivres), so it is difficult to understand why such an exemption would still be necessary. and indeed, the commission's advisers who assessed this request for exemption do not consider it to be justified at this stage. furthermore, according to industry information, there are at least two companies offering quantum dots cd-free, and there are products with this technology already on the market. as such, the justification by the commission appears to be incorrect.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the objection raised by the european parliament to the delegated act on the subject. the commission delegated directive extends an exemption for a longer period, which may be relevant in the future but which can only be granted on the basis of a careful and appropriate assessment.
in writing. ‒ the article 4 (1) of directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment limits, inter alia, the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment. annex iii to that directive provides for exemptions from the restrictions provided for in article 4 (1). point 39 of annex iii contains a derogation for cadmium in colour conversion led ii-vi (less than 10 μg cd per mm2 of light emitting surface) for use in solid state or display lighting systems, which expires on 1 july 2014. the commission indicated that it received an application for the renewal of exemption 39 in december 2012 and a related application for a more restricted and specific exemption for the use of cadmium in quantum dots in monitors in may 2013. applications for renewal of an exemption must be submitted no later than 18 months before the expiry of the exemption; the application for the specific exemption was submitted after that deadline. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ the directive presented by the commission does not prohibit the use of cadmium quantum dots in the lighting and backlighting application of monitors. it merely requires a new assessment, since the resolution does not meet some of the conditions laid down. i think the commission should present a new proposal which complies with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and which, above all, guarantees consumer safety.
‒ the regulatory role of the european union in promoting sustainable development and often opening legislative pathways to international standards is recognised. at the same time, through funding programmes such as horizon 2020, the union has catalysed scientific and technological research, which is the basis for much of the innovation that reduces the effects of pollution and offers citizens in general a better quality of life. cadmium is a naturally occurring element that is scarce and has no relevant role in living systems. even in low concentrations, cadmium is harmful to human and animal health in general. in technological terms, cadmium has numerous uses that are not yet replaceable. however, the proposed delegated directive allowed the continued use of cadmium in monitors, a prospect which is no longer justified. i think we need to continue to promote sustainable solutions and to discourage the use of techniques and methods that are outdated or have environmentally more suitable alternatives. for that reason, i voted to make this delegated directive unworkable and to impose the best available environmental and technological practices.
in writing. ‒ the in january 2015, the european commission proposed a delegated act extending the lifetime of cadmium in televisions until june 2018. the commission is thus reintroducing cadmium on the eu market, as manufacturers had already removed it from the lighting and backlighting applications of cadmium-based monitors in light of the expiry of this exemption in july 2014. the commission justified this by stating that 'cadmium-free quantum dots are not technically available yet'. however, according to the commission's explanatory memorandum, for one of the applications, there are no products on the market using quantum dots (cd and cd-books), so it is difficult to understand why such an exemption would still be necessary. and indeed, the commission's advisers who assessed this request for exemption do not consider it to be justified at this stage. furthermore, according to industry information, there are at least two companies offering quantum dots cd-free, and there are products with this technology already on the market. as such, the justification by the commission appears to be incorrect.
‒ this resolution objects to the delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in lighting and monitor lighting applications, by asking the commission to submit a new delegated act taking into account the position of parliament. in january 2015, the european commission proposed a delegated act extending the lifetime of cadmium in televisions until june 2018. the commission is thus reintroducing cadmium on the eu market, as manufacturers had already removed it from the lighting and backlighting applications of cadmium-based monitors in light of the expiry of this exemption in july 2014. however, according to the commission's explanatory memorandum, for one of the applications, there are no products on the market using quantum dots (cd and cdlivres), so it is difficult to understand why such an exemption would still be necessary. and indeed, the commission's advisers who assessed this request for exemption do not consider it to be justified at this stage. since the replies provided by the commission were not satisfactory, this resolution opposes the delegated act proposed by the commission. we agreed.
‒ this resolution concerns an objection to a delegated act concerning the amendment of the regulations concerning the obligation to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, which establish specific measures concerning the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and lay down certain rules for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 670/2003. this objection was raised in view of the fact that the production of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin uses land necessary for sustainable food production mainly in southern europe, whereas the large-scale production of biofuels, which are much more profitable, could make it difficult and take away access to land for farmers and make the fight against hunger much more difficult. in addition, a register of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is necessary to ensure both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition, in particular due to imports from third countries, and that licences are made public so that member states and eu institutions are fully aware of the market situation, since eurostat does not provide such accurate information.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the commission delegated act amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. i share the view expressed in the european parliament's resolution that transparency and knowledge of the product market is essential in the face of tight competition with imports from third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, as it is essential to ensure transparency and knowledge of the state and development of the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. this is a market which is unstable and highly competitive, in particular because of imports from third countries. moreover, such data are advantageous when it comes to international agreement negotiations and anti-dumping investigations.
‒ as the motion for a resolution on the delegated regulation to the commission argues, a more in-depth knowledge of the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is still lacking before moving forward with import certification.
‒ this resolution concerns the objection to a delegated act concerning the amendment of the regulations concerning the obligation to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, which establish specific measures concerning the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and lay down certain rules for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 670/2003. this objection was raised in view of the fact that the production of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin uses land necessary for sustainable food production mainly in southern europe, whereas the large-scale production of biofuels, which are much more profitable, could make it difficult and take away access to land for farmers and make the fight against hunger much more difficult. in addition, a register of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is necessary to ensure both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition, in particular due to imports from third countries, and that licences are made public so that member states and eu institutions are fully aware of the market situation, since eurostat does not provide such accurate information.
‒ maternity leave is an essential tool for ensuring a balance between family and professional life. it is also of particular importance in the face of the evident ageing of the european population. however, its implementation varies between member states and attempts to improve common standards in the eu have been blocked by governments since 2008. i regret that the community executive may withdraw the proposal to revise the directive. if that is indeed the case, it is important that you present a new legislative initiative during the luxembourg presidency of the council. it is also proposed that a separate directive be drawn up establishing a paid paternity leave of at least 10 working days.
‒ we have been instrumental in bringing this matter to the attention of this parliament and in demanding the condemnation contained in this resolution. that is why we welcome it. the case of the maternity directive lays bare the state of this european union and what its people can expect. it is at the same time a buffer against any measure, however small, aimed at improving living conditions; a step forward, however modest, towards social progress. the council, which is so ready to back down, fails to agree to increase the protection of working mothers and their children by guaranteeing them a minimum of 20 weeks of fully paid maternity leave. in the face of this, the european commission (which was supposed to be the bearer of a new progressive impulse) decided to throw its proposal in the trash and disguise the decision - which was deeply political - as a mere administrative act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i think it is shameful that a directive which aims to regulate something as fundamental as maternity and paternity leave has been dragged out for years because of a lack of will on the part of the member states. it cannot be repeated over and over again that europe has a demographic problem, that the birth rate must be increased, without creating the basic conditions for those who want to be mothers and those who want to be fathers to be able to be so.
‒ the council has been delaying legislation on this matter for five years. i think it would be appropriate to reopen this dossier in order to reach an agreement which is beneficial for all parties.
‒ the proposal on maternity leave, which revises a 1992 directive, was put forward by the european commission in october 2008 and the european parliament (ep) adopted its position at first reading. the council of ministers of the european union, which legislates on an equal footing with the ep on this matter, has not made any progress in the past five years with legislative work due to a lack of political will, and the proposal is currently blocked. i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which regrets the blocking of the revision of maternity leave and which advocates the creation of paternity leave in the european union. i believe that the european union must move quickly towards extending the period of maternity leave provided for in european legislation from the current 14 to 20 weeks with full pay, in order to make it easier to reconcile family and working life. the european union is currently facing a very serious demographic problem and it is essential that new economic and social conditions be created to enable parents to carry out their family responsibilities in the best possible way.
‒ the european parliament has sent a clear signal to the commission on the issue of maternity leave. as my colleague maria arena has said, we are simply asking the commission 'not to give up on pregnant women, because there are so many reasons to support them' in an ageing europe. we also urge the commission to introduce paid paternity leave alongside maternity leave.
‒ maternity leave is part of a set of basic and indispensable conditions in a modern and developed society. women and men must have equal access to the labour market and, to this end, maternity leave for women must be part of the system. and not, on the contrary, be ostracized by the system. in the european union, labour markets are becoming more integrated. we must humanize them and introduce measures which genuinely reward the efforts of workers, whose value goes beyond mere monetary compensation. fighting for common standards in the implementation of maternity leave is not just a matter of gender equality. it is a choice by a society that is already old but wants to be rejuvenated, by a society that refuses to reproduce discrimination. it is a choice for a society that is beyond the immediate, that has the capacity to hear silent causes, but that nevertheless attends to them. it is a choice for a model of society with a future and to which i wish to commit myself.
in writing. ‒ this issue exposes the true nature of the eu. there is always agreement on cuts in wages and social and labour rights. if the countries are held hostage to the usury of the banks, through troika loans, there is no doubt about that either and everyone agrees. as for sending military forces to sovereign countries, we also see no difficulty in reaching an agreement. but when it comes to protecting the rights of working mothers by guaranteeing them a minimum of 20 weeks of fully paid maternity leave, we only see uncomfortable silence. the commission does not have to withdraw this proposal. that is a political decision, not an administrative one. as for the (non-) political decision, it will be the people who will judge it.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the implementation of the lisbon strategy, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the implementation of the lisbon strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the adoption of this resolution goes against the european commission's decision, reaffirmed in the european parliament's plenary session, to withdraw the proposal for the revision of the directive in the context of the refit exercise. if this decision is implemented, it will affect the lives of millions of working mothers who will continue to be discriminated against because they have children and will make it impossible for many young families to realize their dreams. the decision contrasts with the official rhetoric of the european union on the alleged defence of equal rights between men and women, the right to reconcile work and family life and the fight against wage inequalities (16.4% in the eu; 15.7% in portugal). we voted yes.
‒ persons with disabilities, as full citizens, enjoy the same rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and full participation in society. people with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society and their integration into the labour market presents one of the greatest challenges to social and labour market policies. i support this resolution because i believe that better implementation of eu legislation is needed to increase accessibility for all people with disabilities in the eu. the commission is also proposing that member states which have not yet ratified the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities should do so as soon as possible. in order to ensure full mobility for all citizens, it is imperative to ensure that persons with disabilities can travel autonomously using all means of transport, including public transport.
‒ an estimated 80 million people in the eu are disabled and, as full citizens, enjoy the same rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and full participation in society. however, information provided by the eu agency for fundamental rights consistently shows that persons with disabilities face discrimination and barriers to the exercise of their rights on an equal basis with others and that their integration into the labour market represents one of the greatest challenges for social and labour market policies. the employment rate for people aged 20-64 is over 70%, while the employment rate for people with disabilities is under 50% and the employment rate for women without disabilities is 65%, compared to 44% for women with disabilities. i therefore believe that access to employment and non-discrimination at the workplace are fundamental elements of an autonomous and independent life. i believe it is essential that there is an ambitious proposal for an eu accessibility legislative act, with the full involvement of people with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle, promoting the independence and full inclusion of people with disabilities and establishing a continuous, effective and independent monitoring and enforcement mechanism.
‒ we supported this resolution, although we cannot fail to point out some essential aspects of this problem. it is noted that the transparency of accountability, also derived from the obligations of signatories of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, applies to the very functioning of the eu institutions and that this information needs to be accessible to all. to be consistent with this convention would be, for example, not to encourage and support cuts in public education systems that affect people with disabilities. in portugal, in the framework of the troika and post-troika policy, which are one and the same thing, the number of special education teachers has been drastically reduced and in many schools there is not a single teacher, a situation which has worsened in recent years. there are students who, for lack of support in school, are advised to stay home, finding their parents completely desperate and without solutions. they are children and young people who have been deprived of the right to education. does this have anything to do with the convention that is so much defended here?
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the eu still has a long way to go in terms of disability rights, not only in terms of fighting discrimination but also in terms of removing barriers and increasing accessibility and e-accessibility, developing high-quality health cities and strengthening the capacities and role of organisations of people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ people with disabilities, as full citizens, enjoy the same rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and full participation in society. there are 80 million people in the european union who are disabled. integration policies are needed to improve the quality of life of these full-fledged european citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ persons with disabilities, as full citizens, enjoy the same rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and full participation in society. an estimated 80 million people in the european union have a disability and information provided by the eu agency for fundamental rights consistently shows that people with disabilities face discrimination and barriers to the exercise of their rights on an equal basis with others. according to the fundamental rights agency, 21 of the 28 member states still impose restrictions on the full exercise of legal capacity. the eu anti-discrimination directive was proposed by the european commission in 2008, but remains blocked in the council, and every year the european parliament's committee on petitions receives petitions related to cases of discrimination on the grounds of disability in access to employment, self-employment, public services and education. for these reasons i am voting in favour of this resolution.
‒ difference cannot be seen as inequality, but as an enhancement of human life. i believe that the existing legislation of the european union must be applied in order to respect the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to ensure that fundamental rights are available to everyone.
‒ transparency in the accountability of the european institutions themselves is essential today. it is also necessary that this information is accessible to all. being consistent with this convention also means, for example, not encouraging and supporting cuts in public education systems that affect people with disabilities. in portugal, in the framework of the troika and post-troika policy, which are one and the same thing, the number of special education teachers has been drastically reduced and in many schools there is not a single teacher, a situation which has worsened in recent years. there are students who, for lack of support in school, are advised to stay home, finding their parents completely desperate and without solutions. they are children and young people who have been deprived of the right to education. this is the hypocrisy we're in.
‒ transparency of accountability, also derived from the obligations of signatories to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, for the functioning of the european institutions themselves is essential today. it is necessary that this information is accessible to all. but consistent with this convention would be, for example, not to encourage and support cuts in public education systems that affect people with disabilities. in my country, portugal, in the framework of the troika and the post-troika policy, which are one and the same thing, the number of special education teachers has been drastically reduced and in many schools there is not a single teacher, a situation which has worsened in recent years. there are students who, for lack of support in school, are advised to stay home, finding their parents completely desperate and without solutions. they are children and young people who have been deprived of the right to education. does this have anything to do with the convention which this parliament so much claims to defend? however, while agreeing with the principles advocated in the resolution, and while criticizing the specific policies which do not apply them, we voted in favour.
‒ xylella fastidiosa poses a very serious direct threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe, in particular olive trees, almond trees, peaches and ornamental plants. the strain that is infecting olive trees in the apulia region of southern italy is different from the strain that is causing the disease in the vine or citrus trees in other parts of the world. the commission notes that the italian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was compatible with the internal market. i agree with the need for the european commission to take effective measures to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa in the european union and to compensate producers for the eradication measures and the loss of income, which imply losses not only in terms of agricultural production but also in terms of historical, cultural heritage and tourism-related activities.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the occurrence of infection by xyllela fastidiosa was first reported by the italian authorities. it is a bacterial infection that mainly affects olive trees. the lack of effective treatments to cure plants infected by this microorganism, the wide range of infection of susceptible plant species, as well as the high probability of contamination, make this bacterium a serious threat. the resolution calls on the commission to take action not only to stop this outbreak but also to protect the sector from future outbreaks through preventive measures. it called for support for targeted farmers who see their crops destroyed and for incentives for farmers who take effective measures to prevent infection and for those who have appropriate agricultural practices to deal with this problem. it also called for funding for research institutes to increase scientific knowledge about xyllela fastidiosa and to identify the nature of the link between the pathogen, the symptoms and the development of the disease. although we believe that the resolution tabled by our group contains a more correct and complete approach to this problem, we believe that the resolution adopted contains a minimum set of measures necessary at this stage of emergency.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures proposed by the member states should be considered as a means of ensuring that the eradication programme is not disrupted by the introduction of new species of invasive alien species.
‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium that infects more than 300 plant species (including olive trees, almond trees, vines and citrus trees) and whose treatment is not always effective, as it lives inside the tree, making it difficult to fight it, and is mainly transmitted through contaminated plants. a plague has broken out in the apulia region of italy, and more than half a million olive trees have already been infected. this is not a problem of italy, portugal or spain. unfortunately, as the january report of the european food safety authority shows, this is a european problem that has all the conditions to worsen. the spread of the disease to other countries of the european union is very likely. portugal is, as is well known, the fourth largest producer of olive oil in the world. i am therefore very concerned about this as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development. hence my vote.
‒ the european food safety authority, in a recent scientific opinion on the risk assessment of xylella fastidiosa, has shown that 'intensive use of insecticide treatments to limit disease transmission and control the vector insect can have direct and indirect impacts on the environment by altering entire food webs with chain-linked consequences, thus affecting different food levels'. however, in the present case, the agri-food sector in apulia is one of the most important industries in the region and the trade unions estimate that 8,000 workers in the olive sector are at risk of losing their jobs. i am voting in favour of this resolution for asking the commission to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the eradication strategy, for calling for consideration of alternative measures depending on the extent of the spread of the bacterium, the plants affected and the strain of the bacterium, and for urging the commission to limit the large-scale use of pesticides and to implement directive 2009/128/ec establishing a framework for community action on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the directives set out in the proposal must be taken into account in order to prevent their spread, while at the same time ensuring the economic recovery of the affected areas.
‒ we live in a globalised market context, where our borders are more open, but where permeability is obviously controlled. this control includes a type of supervision which must be based on reciprocity with regard to the practices of our trading partners and the risk associated with the origin of the products. animal and plant diseases can have devastating economic and environmental effects and the risk of spread is high in this context. border control must be carried out effectively, but this is hardly absolute. it is a competence which, by its nature, falls within the sphere of the european union to implement, naturally relying on the capabilities of the member states. in the event of an outbreak of animal and plant diseases, all means must be mobilised to contain the spread and european solidarity is required to do this.
‒ this resolution calls on the commission to take action not only to stop this outbreak, but also to protect the sector from future outbreaks through preventive measures. it called for support for targeted farmers who see their crops destroyed and for incentives for farmers who take effective measures to prevent infection and for those who have appropriate agricultural practices to deal with this problem. it also called for funding for research institutes to increase scientific knowledge of xyllela fastidiosa and to identify the nature of the link between the pathogen, the symptoms and the development of the disease. we welcome it.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the occurrence of infection by xyllela fastidiosa was first reported by the italian authorities, infecting the entire province of apulia in southern italy. in the audit of the region, the audit committee found that at the time of the audit, no measures had been taken by the italian authorities to stop the infection and contamination in the region, as there were already several affected areas. it is a bacterial infection which affects mainly olive trees in europe and can infect several other fruit trees. in february 2014 emergency measures were adopted and detailed in july of the same year. the commission is proposing concrete measures to curb this outbreak, such as a ban on the import of plants without a phytosanitary certificate that excludes xyllela fastidiosa infection, a ban on the movement of plants for planting, with the exception of seeds and plants listed in the annexes to the directive. other recommendations include the suspension of the issuing of host plant passports, the immediate destruction of all infected plants, the compulsory removal and cleaning of surrounding grasses and the compulsory treatment of nurseries with insecticides to control vectors of infection. we voted yes.
mr president, the elections in ethiopia scheduled for 24 may will not be free and fair. the recommendations of the european and other election observation missions of 2005 and 2010 were not received or followed by the government. this is the real reason why there will be no european election observation mission this year and not, as the government says in its propaganda, for financial reasons. the high representative has followed the recommendations of this parliament. opposition parties say the ruling eprdf has undermined their efforts to register candidates. since last year, more members of opposition parties have been arrested and persecuted again. the only opposition member in parliament will not run for re-election due to state interference in his party. political pluralism and freedoms of expression, association and press are much more restricted today than they were ten years ago when i was the head of the election observation mission in ethiopia. no other african country has as many journalists and bloggers imprisoned, falsely accused of terrorism, as eskinder nega and reeyot alemu and many others. ethiopia is the largest african recipient of european union development aid and a key security ally of the european union and the united states in the region, which explains the undignified leniency on the serious human rights violations, anti-democratic laws in ethiopia and the ferocious repression of the oromo majority and minorities, particularly in the ogaden. the european union must be heard, demanding that the ethiopian government release all journalists and political opponents, including andargachew tsige, an ethiopian and british citizen, exiled opposition leader who was kidnapped in july 2014 in yemen and extradited to ethiopia. by not promoting the voices for democracy in ethiopia, the european union is betraying its values and promoting inter-religious tensions, anti-western extremism in the country, a sentiment that is counterproductive to ethiopia's interests and to our interests. this is a strategic country in the region. we can't keep quiet. we have to demand a change of strategy, of policy towards ethiopia, which is, in effect, where we have immense influence and which, in effect, makes a difference. i'm counting on you, mr. stylianides!
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, next june the second eu-celac summit will take place in brussels under the theme: building our common future, working to create prosperous, cohesive and sustainable societies for our citizens. this is a unique opportunity to deepen the policy dialogue on innovation for sustainable growth, education, security and climate change. it will also be a decisive moment to correct some of the shortcomings in relations between the regions of latin america and europe. the impasse in the free trade agreement between the european union and mercosur has led some of these countries to favour preferential trade agreements with japan and the united states. the european union, as the largest investor in the celac countries, cannot be left behind. i therefore believe that we will have to strengthen our bilateral relations with some latin american countries, such as brazil, a real regional power. i would like to mention, for example, the need to speed up the construction of a digital submarine cable linking latin america to europe via brazil and portugal. another example is the strengthening of the aviation sector on both sides of the atlantic through cooperation with companies such as the brazilian embraer, whose large investments in my country have been a success story. finally, i hope that the affirmation of our common future will necessarily require increased support for the peace negotiations in colombia, the opening of dialogue with cuba and the uncompromising defence of the values of democracy in venezuela, a country which the council representative has neglected to mention.
madam president, madam minister, in the current geostrategic context, all summits are very important, especially if the european union can participate in these summits with a clear vision of its priorities, with a clear vision to consolidate a sustainable, peaceful and people-centred globalisation. the strengthening of relations between the european union and celac is a great opportunity to rebalance relations between the major economic and political blocs on a global scale, bringing together territories linked by a common history and values with very strong humanist roots. it is important, however, that this summit does not result in just good intentions. there is ample scope for joint work in consolidating the processes of democratic stabilisation and openness and in deepening and developing free trade agreements which contain the social and environmental standards which constitute a european reference for the new globalisation. our expectations of the progress that can be made at this summit are very high. we expect a concerted response to the challenges posed by instability in venezuela and the opportunity for economic and political opening in cuba. we expect a new impetus for free trade processes, in particular with mercosur, we expect an articulated vision for the paris climate summit and clear signs of willingness to cooperate in the energy transition process. we expect a convergent vision for the regulation of the new digital economy so that access to knowledge, business opportunities, privacy protection, net neutrality are common hallmarks of a new cycle of globalization that will emerge with the new technological framework. we live in a european union plagued by its own ghosts and internal inconsistencies. but i must say that the action of the high commissioner for foreign affairs has been courageous and enlightening. we therefore have hope and we hope that this summit will be a source of hope. it cannot be to meet the timetable, it cannot be just to meet the timetable.
madam president, at the second celac summit in 2014, the latin american governments unanimously approved a proclamation declaring latin america and the caribbean as a zone of peace and free from colonialism. it is in the light of this proclamation that we hope the eu-celac summit and the eurolat assembly, which precedes it, will take place. it is based on the principles which celac itself has proclaimed for itself and which do not admit of any other type of relationship, as was proved at the last summit of the americas in panama: multilateralism, dialogue, peaceful solutions, unconditional respect for the charter of the united nations and international law and the inalienable right of each country to choose its own form of political and economic organization. and we also hope, for example, that they will learn from some of the policies, for example, the policies of the venezuelan government recently awarded by the fao to fight poverty, misery and hunger.
madam president, madam minister, in a world which is becoming increasingly globalised and at the same time fragmented, it is important to promote ever closer cooperation between the various regions of the world, and the european union has to make choices, and the choice of a closer relationship with latin america is almost a natural choice, which arises precisely from the great cultural closeness between these two regions. we've wasted enough time in the past. it's time to make up for lost time. we are today negotiating, the european union is negotiating a major transatlantic agreement with the united states. this is a very important step towards creating a truly great euro-atlantic area. but we cannot ignore the importance of relations with latin america, nor can we risk devaluing them, and we must therefore make a great effort to strengthen existing cooperation at all levels. many of the south american countries have recently had successful democratic experiences, which have had economic growth, promoted the creation of consistent middle classes, which have come to give more strength to their political choices. today there is added reason to seek to increase this relationship. i would like to refer specifically to a matter which seems to me to be of the utmost importance, the question of the trade agreement between the european union and mercosur. we must definitely overcome the obstacles which have prevented the agreement from being implemented, and the european union must also overcome these same difficulties within itself. it is time to overcome national selfishness which calls into question a common will to move towards the achievement of an agreement of the greatest importance to all these countries.
madam president, i welcome the summit to be held in brussels between the european union and the community of latin american and caribbean states. that's a billion people, and the potential for cooperation between these two great communities is enormous. the ideas and proposals resulting from this summit will inform policy-makers and heads of state and government in order to increase and strengthen investment and cooperation. i would therefore like to stress the key role that this summit plays in promoting greater scientific cooperation between europe and latin america and the caribbean. the last summit resulted in an action plan which gave priority to scientific cooperation with the aim of creating an eu-celac area of knowledge. this initiative seems very important and i call for it to be further promoted and for steps to be taken in this direction at the next summit. access to finance needs to be ensured, for example by ensuring that programmes such as horizon 2020 remain robust.
madam president, two years after the launch of the youth employment initiative, it is still not being implemented across the union as expected, to the detriment of young europeans. the youth unemployment rate remains at absurdly high levels at a time when all the conditions are in place for its full implementation, and i therefore urge the council to help quickly to resolve this situation. in order to motivate the member states which have not yet implemented this initiative, i would like to give the example of my country, portugal, which, after a very tough programme of financial assistance, has implemented the youth initiative and, despite maintaining unacceptable levels of youth unemployment, is beginning to see the effects of the implementation of this programme, in particular: the various youth guarantee measures have involved some 246 000 young people over the last two years. in the last year alone, we have seen a 2.2% reduction in unemployment, corresponding to some 15 000 young people aged 15 to 24, but if we extend this range from 15 to 34, as this parliament has proposed, then we have 50 000 fewer young people involved in unemployment.
madam president, as a scientist, as a member of parliament and as a citizen, i accept hunting and fishing even when it is against my culture, but japanese whaling, carried out under the guise of pseudo-scientific research, is not acceptable. there are reports by reputable scientists, issued under the auspices of the international whaling commission, which point to the lack of scientific justification for the japanese hunt. at the same time, the southernmost part of our planet should be a place of peace and scientific research, as stated in the antarctic treaty. i would also like to say that what is happening every year to the marine mammals in taiji, japan, is unacceptable. the use of animals for human food will never justify their torture, neither in japan nor anywhere else. for this reason, japan was expelled from the world association of zoos and aquariums. in the azores, portugal, whaling has long since been abandoned and replaced by a lucrative wildlife watching activity. that is the way and the only way to go with the big cetaceans.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, mr commissioner, europe needs a sound recovery to reduce unemployment and to provide help again. so far we just have very small signs of recovery and the fundamentals remain very fragile. we had a coincidence of special factors: low oil prices, favourable exchange rates, and most of all expansionary monetary policy, the ecb providing quantitative easing – but these are special factors. for a sound recovery we need certainly a push for reforms, but i would say reforms having in mind better growth potential in our economies, providing better jobs – these are the kind of reforms we need to have – but most of all we need to have a large investment plan really providing opportunities for many strategic projects which are still waiting for proper financing. so this is a really big priority for us, but we believe that this is not all, because we need also to have a favourable fiscal policy allowing for member states to push for this investment and job creation. then we also see the landscape in europe: we still have very deep economic and social divergences within member states and between member states, and this can only be solved if we go ahead in completing the economic and monetary union and in rebalancing it in such a way that they can count on proper coordination of economic and social policies and on a fiscal capacity.
madam president, commissioner, you have come here to say that growth is coming, that debt is going to fall, that the unemployment rate is going to fall, that the deficit is going to fall and that inflation is expected to rise a little bit, supported by increased demand. and then it says that the policy of the european commission as it stands is to continue. commissioner, this is fiction and it has already been written in much better quality than the european commission. it's called "waiting for godot", it was written by beckett, and at the end, vladimir says to estragon, so should we leave? and estragon said to him: yes, we are! but they do not leave the site and so this is exactly the fiction that the european commission is making about european citizens. you come here to tell us that for the first time since 2008, we're going to get out of the crisis and that everything is going to be better. i have news for you, commissioner, that every commissioner since 2008 has come here every year to say that for the first time everything would improve and yet not a single prediction has been fulfilled. they all failed without exception. but there is a relevant data, which is the data of 0.1 percent inflation. if this is confirmed, it creates a very serious liquidity trap and the european commission seems to be satisfied with quantitative easing and yet we have so far seen nothing strictly and this simply means that the ecb is failing in its mandate and the commission too, because the only way not to fail is to promote public investment for all countries.
madam president, commissioner, the european energy regulators agency was and is one of the elements of the so-called energy package. this package consists of a comprehensive strategy, defined at eu level, to privatise and liberalise the energy sector. the strategy is always the same: first they privatize the public sector; then comes the miraculous regulation to solve the problems created by that privatization. in this case, new bureaucracies are emerging at national and european level, with greater external control over what happens in each country, in a strategic area such as energy, which affects all sectors of society horizontally. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next meeting of the european council. we know what the talk of more independence and more decision-making powers for the regulator means. the result of liberalisation has been only one: more profits for the economic groups in the sector, at the expense of more costs for households and businesses. that's how you know who's getting the liberalisation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in swaziland the fight for freedom of expression is of particular importance. thulani maseko, the prominent lawyer who won the 2011 vera chirwa award in recognition of human rights advocacy in africa, and bheki makhubu, editor of the nation newspaper, are prime examples of this struggle. arrested in march 2014 and sentenced on 25 july 2014 to two years in prison for articles criticizing the lack of independence and integrity of the judicial system in their country, their trial offered no guarantee of impartiality and the sentence that convicted them is manifestly disproportionate (in fact, as my colleague kelly said, the judge who was targeted by those articles was the one who convicted them). it is therefore urgent that the government of swaziland honour its commitments under international law regarding freedom of expression, association and assembly, and respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights. i end by quoting a text from a letter maseko wrote from prison: "when freedom is taken from us, it becomes man's supreme duty, however arduous, to reclaim it from his oppressor, for to renounce freedom is to renounce man's right to dignity".
in writing. ‒ by voting for this report, i want to support the idea that the european union and its member states must adapt as quickly as possible to the new challenges that arise daily in the field of security and defence. to this end, it is essential that they make better use of the tools of the common security and defence policy, especially in their interlinkage with the european union's tools for external affairs, humanitarian aid and development policy. it is essential to find a more pragmatic and flexible way of demonstrating european solidarity, while improving the efficiency with which actions and resources in each member state are coordinated. as the report indicates, i hope that at the next european defence council in june decisions will be taken to move in this direction.
in writing. ‒ the instability in the world is all too evident. the european union in particular faces enormous challenges in its neighbourhood. the impacts of this inaction are projected at various levels, also affecting the union's role as a key actor on the international scene. as we have seen recently, the concerted action of the member states has been mainly guided by a reactive role through crisis management. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which succeeds in presenting the challenges, diagnosing the problems and proposing solutions for the common security and defence policy in an integrated way.
‒ the security environment in the european union and its neighbouring regions to the east and south is increasingly unstable and volatile, due to the high number of security problems, both long-standing and recent, which will only be effectively addressed if its structures and its member states work together in a common and truly coordinated effort in the context of the cfsp/csdp. i consider it essential that the union and its member states adapt to these new security challenges as a matter of urgency, in particular through effective use of existing csdp instruments and better interlinking of these instruments with eu instruments on external affairs, humanitarian aid and development policy, coordination of national actions and a closer pooling of resources.
in the report, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's policy on the environment to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. its objectives continue to include the european standardisation of security measures on all fronts, intervention within the framework of nato's policies and objectives, a tool in the service of us imperialist policy, the european federalisation of its foreign policy, notably through the role of the vp/hr which we do not recognise and reject, the promotion of the athena mechanism, a way of deciding on militarization outside the control of the member states and parliament. it promotes the strengthening of financial incentives and tax benefits for the european defence industry, in line with the consolidation of a common european defence industry market, with advances in cybersecurity and increased surveillance. contrary to what is said, the strengthening of a europe of war and military power will never be a contribution by europe to security and peace in the world. obviously, we voted against it.
in the report, the commission proposes to make a number of changes to the athena mechanism, including the introduction of a new system of financial support for the military industrial complex, the creation of a new system of financial support for the military industrial complex, and the introduction of a new system of financial support for the military industrial complex.
in writing. ‒ the union and its member states must, as a matter of urgency, adapt to new security challenges, including through effective use of existing csdp instruments and better interlinking of these instruments with eu instruments on external affairs, humanitarian aid and development policy, coordination between national actions and a closer pooling of resources, and, where appropriate, pragmatic and flexible implementation of new mechanisms that express european solidarity. the boundaries between external security and internal security are becoming increasingly blurred. there must therefore be greater coherence between external and internal instruments and greater cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the areas of the fight against terrorism and organised crime, cyber defence and migration, under the leadership of the vp/hr. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european union as a global actor must reposition its strategy on the common security and defence policy. the conflicts and crises that are affecting the different regions of the world must change the position of the union and the member states, since we need a more responsive europe capable of giving a common and faster response. we must also work with our international partners, including the united nations, nato, the african union and the osce. we must make our common security and defence policy a priority. this requires clear resources for crisis prevention and management. we must also tackle the new challenges to security. union civilian missions and military operations shall be based on in-depth analysis, planning and coordination between member states. these should be flexible and have clear funding, able to respond to the unforeseen events characteristic of this type of mission. on the other hand, member states should cooperate on military capabilities, since reality shows that the union does not have an autonomous and sufficient capacity to respond to security challenges. for the reasons outlined above, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the advance of constant threats to europe's borders is forcing us to rethink our internal security policies. the recent events, which we have all witnessed, prove that europe is not really prepared to respond to the various border problems, whether they arise by land or sea. it is crucial that we take an active stance on issues relating to the defence of the european area. the economic crisis in europe has led to a sharp reduction in military spending. the latter situation needs to be reconsidered as threats to the eu's borders become more acute. in this field too, it is important to promote research policies linked to defence and military strategy.
‒ the same eu that has promoted destabilisation, chaos and underdevelopment in the places of origin, intensifying the migratory pressure, is now washing its bloodstained hands with cosmetic measures, which are also profoundly inhumane. the launching of warships into the mediterranean, in addition to extensive military air and ground assets, and the violation of international law, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of sovereign states to destroy the boats bringing migrants to europe reveal the true nature of this eu, whose economic and military interests override everything and everyone. the european refugee council and other organizations have already warned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the mediterranean is not worsened.
‒ by using the unstable situation in neighbouring regions as a justification for the process of militarisation and the strengthening of the eu's associated security policies, the report glibly omits the actual responsibility of the eu and several member states for the processes of destabilising countries, financing and supporting extremist, terrorist groups and authoritarian regimes, for the actual underdevelopment of those countries, and for the policies of aggression and interference. its objectives continue to include the european standardisation of security measures on a number of fronts, intervention within the framework of nato's policies and objectives, a tool in the service of us imperialist policy, the european federalisation of its foreign policy, notably through the role of the vp/hr which we do not recognise and reject, the enhancement of the athena mechanism, a way of deciding on militarization outside the control of the member states and parliament. it promotes the strengthening, financial incentives and tax benefits of the european defence industry, in line with the consolidation of a common european defence industry market, with advances in cybersecurity and increased surveillance. contrary to what is said, the strengthening of a europe of war and military power will never be a contribution to security and peace in the world. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ security and defence policies remain essentially a member state competence. despite joint operations and a growing need for greater cooperation, justified by a political map which increasingly requires concerted european action, the financing of the common security and defence policy remains too weak. on the one hand, the member states as a whole currently spend some eur 190 billion annually on defence. the results achieved, because they are not coordinated, are often less than desirable, or duplications. moreover, the financing of csdp joint operations not only does not encourage participation by member states but also lacks greater transparency, flexibility and effectiveness. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ the budget cuts in the defence sector and the existing duplication of work require a reformulation of the funding of csdp missions and operations, which involves a better, more cost-effective use of appropriations, as well as adequate democratic control at the level of the eu institutions of all missions and operations, both civilian and military. i would remind you that the eu and its member states are major funders of the various peace and crisis management operations around the world, and that csdp civilian and military missions and operations account for a tiny share of the overall funding, and have even decreased in recent years. according to the report, civilian missions were affected by the widespread insufficiency of payment appropriations, which forced the commission to postpone the payment of eur 22 million for 2015 as a mitigating measure.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. from here, everything is said in relation to the vision and values that inspire it. the report calls for faster and more flexible csdp missions and regrets the low contribution of member states' budgets to the csdp. it called for concrete proposals to be drawn up on the reform of the csdp mission and operations financing schemes, and considered that concrete measures should be taken to strengthen the eu's defence capabilities in complementarity with nato. it called for the strengthening of defence cooperation, the pooling and sharing of resources, capabilities and means, i.e. it supported and called for an extension of the costs eligible under the athena mechanism, extending its scope to the financing of eu military missions. the reality is that the eu is increasingly war-mongering, engaging in almost every scenario of interference, destabilisation and military intervention, an activity which needs funding and which is proposed to be increased. this report seeks to circumvent the eu treaty itself, which provides that the eu budget cannot be used for expenditure arising from operations with military or defence implications. we obviously voted against it.
in the report, the commission is proposing to increase the number of member states that have a common defence policy, and to increase the number of member states that have a common defence policy. the european project was born of the idea of peace and was built to guarantee this idea of peace and development of the peoples, not to be another military power.
‒ the increasing challenges of the security environment inside and outside the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state is able to address on its own, require a strengthening of the csdp to make it a more effective policy instrument and an effective guarantor of the security of eu citizens and the promotion of european interests and values. the union must strengthen security at its external borders. the budget cuts in the defence sector and the existing duplication of work require a reformulation of the financing of csdp missions and operations, involving a better, more cost-effective use of appropriations and adequate democratic control at the level of the eu institutions of all missions and operations, both civilian and military. we all need to make a financial effort to continue to strengthen our csdp. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the common security and defence policy is one of the pillars of the european union's foreign policy. this includes civilian missions and military operations whose main objective is conflict prevention and management. since 2003, the union has launched more than 30 missions. despite the measures introduced by the european commission, problems remain which directly affect the effectiveness of these operations. the steady reduction in member states' military budgets leads to delays in the supply of essential equipment and services. the council's slow decision-making process also jeopardises security and the objectives of the common security policy. i support this report because i believe that there must be more transparency and accountability, but also more coherence and complementarity between the union and the member states. i believe that the principle of solidarity should be applied and that all member states should support these missions even when they are not directly involved. the long-term financing of military and civilian missions should be established.
‒ the discussion of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy is an opportunity to recover some provisions of the lisbon treaty that have not yet been exploited. i am aware that the defence capabilities of the european union need to be strengthened, but it is also necessary to take account of the budgetary constraints faced by some member states. we know that the european union and its member states must act as peacekeepers. but i think that the european union cannot fail to be at the forefront of solving world problems, keeping abreast of the cultural, social and political changes taking place in the world and affecting us all.
in the report, the commission has been able to demonstrate that it is not only the european union, but also the european union itself, which is responsible for the development of the european union. its objectives continue to be the european standardisation of security measures on the various fronts, intervention within the framework of nato's policies and objectives, a tool in the service of us imperialist policy, the european federalisation of its foreign policy, in particular through the role of the vp/hr which we do not recognise and reject, the enhancement of the athena mechanism, a way to decide on militarization outside the control of the member states and parliament.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of civil protection authorities, including the european union's national police and police committees (npscs). it called for concrete proposals to be drawn up on the reform of the csdp mission and operations financing schemes, and considered that concrete measures should be taken to strengthen the eu's defence capabilities in complementarity with nato. it called for the strengthening of defence cooperation, the pooling and sharing of resources, capabilities and means, i.e. it supported and called for an extension of the costs eligible under the athena mechanism, extending its scope to the financing of eu military missions. the commission is also proposing to set up a fund for military operations. the reality is that the eu is becoming increasingly militaristic, involved in almost every scenario of interference, destabilisation and military intervention, activities which require funding, which is proposed to be increased here, a perspective which we reject and which we have once again rejected.
‒ the report analyses the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the reduction in european demand due to budget cuts, growing external dependencies, the potential of internal market rules and the review of the defence procurement package are some of the issues addressed in the paper. parliament called on the commission to monitor the implementation of the two internal market directives on the acquisition and transfer of defence material and equipment and to require member states to comply with these rules.
in the first place, the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and to prevent the spread of the disease, and to prevent the spread of the disease. the report also calls for the development and realisation of the european defence market - the war industry - as an indispensable tool for strengthening the eu's war capacity. the objectives of the european union are the continuing european standardisation of security measures on all fronts, intervention in the framework of nato's policies and objectives, a tool in the service of us imperialist policy, and the european federalisation of its foreign policy, notably through the role of the vp/hr, which we do not recognise and reject. it reinforces support for and the promotion of research for the security industry, and strengthens financial incentives and tax benefits for the european defence industry, with the aim of consolidating a common european defence industry market, with advances in cybersecurity and increased surveillance. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against because i believe that the european structural and investment funds, as well as the cosme or horizon 2020 programmes, should not finance the defence industry, let alone advocate budget cuts to increase the defence budget.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on eu member states to fully and correctly implement the two european directives on defence procurement and on intra-community transfers of military equipment and calls for greater coordination of the eu-28 defence policies. the decline in european demand due to budget cuts, growing external dependencies, the potential of internal market rules and the review of the defence procurement package are some of the issues addressed in this document. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the effectiveness of the common security and defence policy, including civilian missions and military operations, depends to a large extent on a genuine european defence market, which can eliminate duplication and red tape. this idea was advocated by the european council, which supports the creation of a security of supply regime at union level. at a time of multiple threats and regional conflicts, the security of the union needs a strategy, which involves the creation of a european market for defence equipment and services. i am in favour of this report and stress the need for increased cooperation and coordination between member states in the articulation of defence budgetary policies and the coordination of options for the acquisition of equipment.
in writing. ‒ a common security and defence policy is essential in a europe that wants to be united. we must also speak with one voice in this area. a common defence policy will not only strengthen europe's defence capability (by reducing dependence on third countries) but also encourage technological innovation and make substantial savings by avoiding sometimes redundant expenditure. this is a controversial area. in times of economic crisis, investing in a defence industry may seem unwise; however, these will be investments which the member states will not hesitate to make individually. it is simply a matter of coordinating this spending at european level, increasing cooperation and sharing of capabilities and equipment, and at the same time fostering a modern, integrated and competitive european defence industry.
‒ the european union's policies of aggression and militarisation, masked as its security policies, dominate the european parliament. this is evidenced by the actual responsibility for the destabilisation of the countries of eastern europe, north africa and the middle east, in particular through the financing and support of extremist, terrorist groups and authoritarian regimes, and for the actual underdevelopment of these countries. the report stresses the value of the european defence market and the need for its effective completion as an indispensable tool for strengthening the eu's war capability. its objectives are the continuation of the european standardisation of security measures on all fronts, intervention within the framework of nato's policies and objectives, a tool in the service of us imperialist policy, and the european federalisation of its foreign policy, particularly through the role of the vp/hr, which we do not recognise and reject.
in the first place, the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and to prevent the spread of the disease, and to prevent the spread of the disease. the report broadly stresses the importance of the european defence market as an indispensable tool for strengthening the eu's war-fighting capability. the objectives of the european union are the continuing european standardisation of security measures on all fronts, intervention in the framework of nato policies and objectives, a tool in the service of us imperialist policy, and the european federalisation of its foreign policy, notably through the role of the vp/hr, which we do not recognise and reject. strengthen the support and enhancement of research for the security industry, the strengthening, financial incentives and tax benefits of the european defence industry, in line with the consolidation of a common european defence industry market, with advances in cybersecurity and increased surveillance. we voted against it.
madam president, commissioner, the meeting of the g7 economics ministers and central bank governors in dresden is already anticipating what will be yet another space for reaffirming the policies and guidelines that have led the peoples of europe and the world to disgrace, economic destruction, social and environmental devastation. a safe space for the reaffirmation of blackmail and pressure on greece and the greek people. a space to reaffirm all the fallacies about fighting terrorism and climate change. but there are certain facts which will certainly be overlooked in the final declarations of this summit, facts which are as unavoidable as they are uncomfortable for the g7 leaders. firstly, the obvious economic decline of the g7 itself, and then the evidence of a capitalist crisis which, instead of a thousand times proclaimed recovery, shows us that it is still deepening, and with expressions at the social level which are increasingly worrying and which are, at the same time, the most vivid libel against everything that the g7 represents and defends.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as regards development finance and cooperation with africa, what we have the right to expect from the european union and the g7 is not too little, but it is also not too much. and what we hope is a clear political signal of an effective commitment to building a more just and sustainable world, able to face the drama of poverty that challenges the dignity of the human person, and that is what will be decided at three very important conferences, starting already with the addis ababa conference on financing for development. the european union's duty was to respond positively to the appeal of the un secretary-general and to present a concrete proposal to the g7 and to addis ababa, capable of inspiring concrete commitments from other international partners. unfortunately, that's not going to happen. the council's conclusions yesterday on the new global partnership and the post-2015 agenda are disappointing, fall short of what is needed and run counter to the position of this european parliament which, by a large majority, called for more ambition and more commitments in the report i myself presented. the council does indeed confirm the 0.7% target, but it does not indicate as a timetable 2020 as this parliament has proposed, but the actual horizon of the 2015 agenda, that is, it throws any financial commitment for 2030 to the end of the period. what is now being discussed is not sustainable development in 2030, but financing for development in each of the 15 years between now and 2030, and the european union is not making any concrete commitments to this end. the talks on sustainable development and cooperation with africa are very beautiful, but they will only go beyond that if these commitments are not to be taken seriously and if they are not accompanied by financial commitments appropriate to our ambitions.
this meeting of g7 economics ministers and central bank governors in dresden allows for the confirmation of the policies and guidelines that have led europe to economic destruction and social and environmental devastation. the blackmail and pressure on greece and the greek people will continue. we'll hear the usual fallacies about fighting terrorism and climate change, passing over the final statements of this summit plus some uncomfortable, though unavoidable, facts for the g7 gentlemen. nothing will be said about the evident economic decline of the g7 itself, which also reveals the evidence of a capitalist crisis. we do not see the resumption that has been proclaimed, but rather its deepening, and with expressions at the social level that are increasingly worrying and that are, at the same time, the most vivid libel against everything that the g7 represents and defends.
in writing. the meeting of the g7 economy ministers and central bank governors in dresden already anticipates what will be yet another space for reaffirming the policies and orientations that have led the peoples of europe and the world to disgrace, economic destruction and social and environmental devastation; a space, surely, for reaffirming the blackmail and pressure on greece and the greek people and reaffirming known fallacies about the fight against terrorism and climate change. on the one hand, there will be this summit and on the other, the will and the struggle of the peoples.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for the enormous and hard work of negotiation which has enabled us to arrive at this point with a better and more complete proposal than the commission. in fact, it was a very difficult process to try to bring these two programmes, which had different main objectives, together into one, and to treat them in the same way. however, i believe that the future programme will be more attractive to the member states, as it eliminates the principle of co-financing and gives preference to short supply chains and therefore to local products. it has a strong educational component, encouraging young europeans to adopt healthy eating habits, preventing obesity and bringing them closer to farmers and the european production system. it is essential that they understand that agricultural products are not born on the shelves of supermarkets, but are the result of enormous effort and dedication on the part of farmers. this programme also represents a huge added value, since in many cases it is the only meal and food for many young people who, being more deprived, also need to be supported in schools. parliament also proposed an increase of eur 20 million for the milk programme, so that no member state would lose funding during the transition to the future objective criteria for the allocation of funds. i would like to emphasize that only by this increase do we accept the new set of eligibility criteria. the report also provides for the possibility of transferring up to 15% of the financial allocation between the two pillars, in accordance with national strategies. it is up to the member states to decide. i would also like to highlight and thank the enormous support and solidarity of almost all the political groups in favour of positive discrimination in the outermost regions. we have thus fulfilled the treaties and shown that this too is a europe of the regions. in conclusion, i would just like to say that there are some things that need to be improved and that the ppe would like to table amendment no 49, for which it asks parliament's support, since we believe that it should be the member states who decide and, i repeat, the member states and not the commission who decide what should be distributed in our schools.
in writing. with different, but similar histories and frameworks, school milk and school fruit schemes are fully justified in the face of the need to encourage the consumption of these products at school age and to facilitate access to them without economic constraints. the declining trend in consumption of these products has not yet been reversed, so the relevance of the two school schemes in question remains. both schemes could be improved, for example in the area of promoting the use of local and traditional products. that is the meaning of several of the amendments we have tabled. failure to accept these amendments is a missed opportunity to give these two programmes a new dimension. on the other hand, it is regrettable that the insistence on allocating funds to institutional propaganda for the eu is sometimes even to the detriment of a greater increase in the appropriations for the primary purposes of these schemes. of course, it is not necessary to mention here the damage caused by the current common agricultural policy and its successive reforms to the population, to healthy consumption habits and to local production. the merits of these programmes are not in question, but in this context and in view of the insistence on their propaganda aspect, legitimate doubts arise as to their real objectives and scope.
in writing. the functioning of this programme needs to be improved and this is what we are talking about now. the aim is to contribute to the consolidation of healthy eating habits by promoting the consumption of essential nutrients by children. equally important, the programme contributes to stabilising the outflow of milk, fruit and vegetables, sectors already badly affected by the decline in domestic consumption and the effects of the russian embargo. the programme of free distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools is therefore of the greatest importance, especially as the consumption of these products has been declining in the european union. this has a double consequence. on the one hand, the impact on the health of the population and on the other, the impact on agricultural markets. i call for the negotiations to be conducted in the spirit of the position we are voting on today, so that the added value of this programme can be properly exploited in all regions of europe, particularly in the azores.
mr president, torture, arbitrary detentions, including that of the swedish citizen david isaac since 2001, severe restrictions on freedom of expression, association and religious freedom are routine in eritrea. there have been no elections since independence in 1993. the constitution was never applied and political parties are not allowed. forced labour and indefinite compulsory military service are also forcing thousands of eritreans to flee the country, seeking refuge in europe, because refugee camps in neighbouring countries often amount to nothing more than detention in inhuman and degrading conditions. to keep eritreans in their country, the european commission is planning to triple its development aid. it is a policy which will fail completely, because it is impossible to have development if one ignores the ferocious repression of the eritrean people, imprisoned by the tyranny of president isaias. it is embarrassing that the commission and the council lack strategic vision and are prepared to negotiate with a dictatorship which has no regard for the democratic principles we are supposed to defend in order to get rid of the refugees in the mediterranean. this is a blind plan that will fail and the least you can do is demand... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, the increase in cyberattacks against media outlets demonstrates how the tentacles of terrorism and other serious crime go far beyond what we traditionally understand by armed attack and terrorist act. they also show how imperative and urgent it is that we bridge the gap between internal security and external security. it's the safety of our citizens, of critical infrastructure, of the ability of governments and public and private services to operate without disruption. the whole type of computer networks on which society today is based depends on this. the targeting of the free press with cyber attacks, from whoever they come, as was indeed seen in the case of french tv5, is an attempt to muzzle it. these attacks are therefore not only against journalists and news organizations. these are attacks on our societies, on democracy, on freedom. cyberterrorism is becoming more sophisticated, cheaper and easier to execute. we are not prepared in the european union! we need to recognise this, and here, as in other areas of european security, member states must recognise that it is imperative that they work together, with and under the guidance of the european union and the high representative for the common foreign and security policy. they need to design a consistent, coherent and systematic strategy to prevent and disarm the cyber threat that is by nature offensive and without borders. the answers that are needed and in which we must invest are therefore in the technological, political, legal and defence fields. the european agenda for security, presented weeks ago, must provide the framework for coherence and effectiveness in the related instruments and strategies: from the outset the european cybersecurity strategy, the directive on information network security, the cyber defence framework policy. but without recognizing that we have a shared interest, we will be increasingly at the mercy of terrorists and cybercriminals.
forced marriage is one of the most extreme and criminal forms of violence, which forces children and young women in particular to lose their innocence. i am not referring exclusively to physical violence and sexual abuse, but also to the premature death of dreams and desires. i'm talking about girls who have stopped playing to satisfy so-called cultural whims. these are young women who should be in schools and universities and who are literally sold out by their families in the name of gods and customs and traditions. i am also referring to men, many of them much older, who willingly consent to rape young girls. if it is true that the religious, cultural and social question weighs heavily, it is equally true that these marriages have a price: the dowry, or rather a payment. "forced marriage is little more than slavery", said a young woman forced into marriage, and we have many girls and young people who are slaves in europe. these women are the daughters of shame. shame on who knows where and how these marriages take place. shame on those who can't enforce the law. shame on those who do not protect them from the madness of a so-called custom and an honor that is nothing but a tradition that kills. we know that about 10 percent of the foreigners who have gone to syria in search of a caliphate are western women and girls, some of them european, who will also be forced to marry or be raped or murdered or sold. one of these young women was sold 22 times, 22 times! and what have we done for this young woman? for all the young women and girls brutally raped by their lawful husbands? for all the girls who have a baby instead of a doll? what is the role of education in this area? what have we done to ensure that no girl or young woman in old europe is promised as a commodity and sold as a slave?
‒ i support this proposal for a regulation which brings together in a single framework two programmes for schools which were previously separate: the fruit distribution aid scheme and the milk distribution scheme. i am voting in favour of opening the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations because i believe that this new common system will simplify the administrative procedures of the two programmes by reducing the burden on national authorities, schools and providers. i welcome the educational part of the programme which encourages young people to adopt healthy consumption habits by introducing them to agriculture and educating them about the origin of food, and the increase of eur 20 million for the milk programme, which will allow no member state to lose funding during the transition to the future distribution criteria.
‒ the declining trends in consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk have not been reversed, so the relevance of the two school systems under consideration remains. both schemes could be improved, particularly in the areas of promoting the use of local and traditional products and flexibility in the use of funds by member states. in addition, the system for evaluating and monitoring the school milk scheme is weak, and the school fruit distribution system needs improvement. this is important for measuring the effectiveness of these regimes in the medium or long term. unfortunately, many of the amendments we have proposed have been rejected. it is regrettable that throughout the report there is insistence on allocating funds to advertising expenditure, noting the eu's involvement in the scheme, as opposed to a further increase in the appropriations for these school feeding support schemes.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the european union. i am also in favour of incorporating into the programme such issues as healthy eating habits and the fight against food waste. obesity is a reality, affecting some 22 million children. given the characteristics of the outermost regions, i am in favour of an additional 5% increase in union support, with a further 5% if these regions import products from other outermost regions which are close by.
in writing. ‒ we all know the importance of adopting healthy eating behaviours, especially among young people. in this respect, the present regulatory amendment establishes a more uniform and efficient legal and financial framework, capable of responding adequately to the global problems of the rapid increase in obesity and the continuing reduction in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk by the school community. in this respect, i am in favour of the amendments contained in this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, which brings together in a single legal and financial framework two schemes which were currently separate as regards the distribution of fruit and milk in schools. the proposal has two main objectives: on the one hand to include essential products such as fresh fruit and vegetables in the diet, with a view to linking them to agriculture, public health and the environment, and on the other hand to allocate separate financial envelopes to the member states for the fruit, vegetables and milk sectors, taking account of the specificities of the type of products and their distribution chains. the educational dimension and economic rationality of this proposal, the main objective of which is to promote healthier eating, have led me to vote in favour.
‒ i call for negotiations with the other european institutions on this subject to be conducted in the spirit of the position voted today. the proposals thus approved and to be included in the scheme for the free distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools substantially improve their content, their potential contribution to children's health and the possibilities of disposal of their agricultural products. i would particularly like to see provisions to encourage access to the scheme in certain regions of europe strengthened, where the constraints of their specific geographical location make it difficult for them to take full advantage of the scheme's opportunities.
‒ despite distinct efforts to increase consumption, health and agricultural promotion, both at national and eu level, the declining trends in consumption of these products have not been reversed, especially for fresh fruit and vegetables and consumption milk, thus keeping relevant the reasoning that led to the creation of the two school schemes. both schemes could be improved, particularly in the areas of promotion of local and traditional products and flexibility in the use of funds. in addition, the system for evaluating and monitoring the school milk scheme is weak and the school fruit distribution system needs improvement, which is important for measuring the effectiveness of these schemes in the medium or long term. unfortunately, many of the amendments we have proposed have been rejected. it is regrettable that throughout the report there is insistence on the allocation of funds to be spent on advertising, noting the eu's involvement in the scheme, as opposed to a further increase in the appropriations for these school feeding support schemes.
‒ the declining trends in consumption of these products have not been reversed, especially for fresh fruit and vegetables and drinking milk, thus keeping relevant the reasoning that led to the creation of the two school schemes. both schemes could be improved, particularly in the areas of promotion of local and traditional products and flexibility in the use of funds. the evaluation and monitoring system for school milk is weak and the school fruit distribution system needs improvement. it is regrettable that throughout the report there is an insistence on allocating funds to be spent on advertising, as opposed to a greater increase in the appropriations for these school feeding support schemes.
mr president, commissioner, there is no question of the need for a reserve for crisis situations. it is the fact that this cap is itself a permanent factor in the crisis. the last reform has maintained scandalous inequalities in the distribution of cap funds between countries, production and producers. liberalisation and market orientation is the watchword. millions of small and mediumsized farmers know the meaning of these words: prices that do not compensate for production, the ruin of millions of farms, concentration of production, increased food dependence of several countries. competitiveness is another key word, but some receive double or triple the payment per hectare allocated to others. that's easy to be competitive! in portugal, many thousands of small and mediumsized farmers are struggling to survive, to stay in business, with production prices that often do not cover production costs. for these people, it is not the small sum of 500 euros, i stress, 500 euros, which they will receive as a lump sum, that will put an end to the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, in the context of the latest reform of the cap, european farmers have been subjected to financial discipline with the aim of creating a reserve fund which will allow the commission to intervene in the event of a severe and prolonged crisis in production and markets. i welcome the commission's proposal, because it protects small producers by exempting direct payments below eur 2 000 from the levy. this was the case last year and at the end of the year we were debating what to do with the surplus in the agricultural section, with very strong positions on both sides, some calling for it to be absorbed into the overall commission budget and many advocating that it should be reinvested in the sector. we cannot continue to send this message to our farmers, because if there is any kind of financial surplus in the sector it must be used to avoid cutting direct payments to farmers the following year. commissioner, although this measure is enshrined in the cap regulation, extraordinary situations require extraordinary decisions. european farmers are exposed to a number of risk factors that threaten their activity and their income. i am talking about the russian embargo which, despite the timely and correct interventions of the commission, has caused a serious crisis in the sector, which we are still feeling. i'm talking about the impact of the end of the milk quotas. we are still in an adjustment phase, but the loss of income in certain regions, such as the outermost regions, has been marked. the russian embargo is an example of how a political and diplomatic decision has been met by direct economic sanctions against our agricultural producers. as this crisis did not originate in the sector, i believe that all the commission's interventions to continue mitigating the negative impacts of this situation do not fall under this heading. i also advocate that part of this budget should be allocated to the milk observatory, equipping it with more and better powers and instruments for intervention and market regulation, so that it can intervene effectively in the milk market, which is going through a serious crisis in many european regions, such as the outermost regions, and which needs to be mitigated. finally, i would also ask that producers in the outermost regions be exempted from this financial discipline or at least that the level of exemption be increased, given the enormous constraints they face, in particular the opening up of new markets and the crises i have already mentioned.
mr president, i cannot but commend maria's report. we all know that the economic crisis and austerity measures have not treated men and women equally. women were disadvantaged and this disadvantage was accentuated during the crisis. we are seeing a regression in the progress made towards gender equality and we need to be able to give a sensitive and firm response to gender issues in an attempt to reverse this trend. the adoption of this report will be a very important step in that direction. i would remind you that in most of the countries affected by the economic crisis, we are seeing an increasing feminization of poverty. the main beneficiaries of food banks are women and those with at least one child. in europe, there are on average seven times as many single-parent households headed by women as by men. many shelters for women victims of violence have been forced to close due to budget cuts. poor or at risk of poverty women are more likely to be in low-paid, precarious and informal work, and face the risk of exploitation and trafficking. the freezing of pensions in the context of austerity puts older women at greater risk of poverty. and finally, women are more dependent than men in terms of tax benefits. these and many other warnings come to us from all sides and we are stubborn to ignore them. many european governments have, in fact, been implementing austerity measures that are aggravating the negative effect of the economic crisis on women. it is therefore essential to bear in mind that restrictions on women's economic autonomy constitute obstacles to the protection of basic rights and of human dignity itself. there is always an alternative that does not involve violating human rights. we are the ones who make these alternatives and i am very sorry that on that side they do not want to make this change.
mr president, yes, a strategy is important, but a strategy for equality between men and women that goes beyond the paper to the practice and that has unfortunately not happened. this report contains many truths and we will support it. but the reality is that the questions of equality and, in particular, the implementation of women's rights, cannot be put in a back seat, as if they had nothing to do, in particular, with the major political choices and the major economic policy choices. and it's important that the major political groups here remember when they have consensus on major macroeconomic options, remember when the european union, for example, supports cuts in public services, which are the ones that suffer the most. when the european union supports cuts in pensions and widow's pensions, it is also women who suffer the most. when you support pay cuts, it's women who are pushing down already low wages even further. it is women who become less independent and more vulnerable to violence. when you support cuts in social rights, it's women who see their maternity rights limited. when you support cuts in health care, it's women who lose access to sexual and reproductive health. and so you can square the circle. i would like to make a brief comment to say that, although we agree with the whole of this report, we do not agree with the term 'forced prostitution' because we consider that in a humanistic society the exploitation of the body and the feelings is always forced and therefore we want to make our position explicit.
madam president, more than thirty-five years after the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, we are still defining strategies to ensure equality between women and men in the european union. it is indeed regrettable. however, while i recognize that the report we are discussing is ambitious, i believe that it goes beyond its objectives and calls into question the principle of subsidiarity, which must be taken into account in the final vote. commissioner, while i acknowledge the progress the union has made on gender equality, and the evidence of this is that we both have the opportunity to be here in this parliament debating this issue, there is still a long way to go. i don't think we should treat as equal what is different because it is not by giving the same to everyone that we are being fair but by adapting to the needs of each one. this is, in my view, the new paradigm of gender equality. i therefore advocate that men and women have the same basic rights, such as access to fairly paid work, equal work for equal pay, access to political life, work-life balance, among other aspects. but let me highlight the one which i believe is the key to all this, to enable these inequalities to be eliminated. i mean, obviously, education. knowledge is power and therefore i believe that the european union has a duty to create all the conditions for access to education, training and information for all women and men, so that stereotypes and prejudices are combated from an early age, and that throughout their lives they become the castrators of the integral development of the human person, the enablers of abuses of all kinds. by equipping young people with these tools, we will indeed be contributing to a more equitable society. it is in this sense that i believe it is important to put into practice all the instruments at the disposal of the union and the member states, such as the istanbul convention, because physical, verbal, psychological, religious, financial and other forms of violence are still a sad reality. the women who count on us, not the ones sitting here but the ones no one hears about: the victims of the system. there's still a lot to do.
mr president, the crisis in the european union and the eurozone is not yet over. the prospect is that it could drag on for a long time, with some even calling it a secular stagnation. the persistently high levels of unemployment and structural poverty, growing inequalities, are the background against which we see new and repeated attempts at political blackmail and financial suffocation to break the will of the greek people, not only the greeks, but of all those who dare to rise up against exploitation, unemployment and hunger, and to fight for democracy and national sovereignty, for progress and social justice. but what merkel, hollande, juncker, draghi and lagarde think is a show of strength is really a sign of their immense weakness. the people are becoming increasingly aware of the radical incompatibility between the rules of economic and monetary union and any sovereign development project capable of breaking the backwardness of a civilizational dimension in which many peoples have been entangled. the choice is clear: break or fall back.
mr president, it is important to defend and understand intellectual property rights as a matter which, in our view, is primarily concerned with the interests of authors and creators and not primarily with the interests of intermediary companies, which profit from what they consider to be merely a commodity within the framework of the internal market, which naturally favours the largest companies and the economically strongest countries. but there is one point that we think is important to stress. the european union is also committed to the development of the cultural sector, which is a key element in the development of the european union. and it is up to the states to ensure that dignity. unfortunately, the opposite has been true. on the other hand, everyone has the right to enjoy culture and knowledge, and the essential part of the remuneration of authors and creators should not fall on them. it would be more fair, indeed, if it were left to the intermediaries who profit from this work.
putin's russia has begun its aggression with the illegal occupation of crimea and continues it in the donbas, not only against the independence of ukraine, but against international law and global peace and security. we don't want the war. we are and have always been open to dialogue and cooperation with moscow, despite the blacklists of european politicians. we must therefore apply economic, financial and other sanctions to the many economic and other interests affected. putin is counting on european disunity. let's switch it around. sanctions will have to be tightened if russia continues to violate the minsk agreements. but it's important to direct them. the russian people have already had to endure the gag and adventurism imposed by putin's authoritarian regime. it is essential that the european union supports, politically and financially, human rights defenders, bloggers, independent media, academics or ngos, and independent civil society in russia.
mr president, it is indisputable that the russian regime has unfortunately evolved in an increasingly autocratic direction, with disregard for individual freedoms and disregard for the actions of the opposition and minorities. this also contributes to a large extent to the fact that, at the external level, we are witnessing a systematic violation of some elementary principles of international law, and in this respect the positions which the european union has been adopting over the last few months, with the support, moreover, of the united nations, have proved to be the most correct and appropriate. this should not, however, make us lose sight of the geopolitical importance of the relationship between the european union and russia. i think that we should be careful in the way we approach the possibility of increasing sanctions against russia. on the one hand, we must support those in russia who are fighting for human rights. i think that is absolutely fundamental. on the other hand, we must have some thought in the way we approach the russian question in international terms.
in writing. it is extraordinary that this report expresses concern about the increasingly intense contacts and cooperation, tolerated by the russian leadership, between populist, fascist and far-right european parties and nationalist forces in russia. the majority of this parliament, on the contrary, seems not at all concerned about the enactment last may of laws in ukraine which criminalize communist ideology and symbols and impede the activity of the communist party of ukraine and other democratic and anti-fascist forces in ukraine. the majority of meps seem to be satisfied with the presence of fascist forces in the ukrainian government and the repression of democratic freedoms.
‒ the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector to be included in the commission's draft budget for 2016 is eur 441,6 million in current prices. in order to reach this amount, the financial discipline mechanism should be applied to direct payments. however, neither the preliminary forecasts of direct payments nor the market-related expenditure require additional financial discipline measures. as a general rule, farmers who submit an aid application for direct payments for a calendar year n shall be paid during the fixed period of the financial year n + 1. therefore, in order to ensure equal treatment of farmers, the adjustment rate should only be applied to payments corresponding to aid applications submitted in the calendar year to which the financial discipline applies, irrespective of the date on which the payment to the farmer is made. i agree to apply a reduction rate of 1,393041% to the part of direct payments to farmers exceeding eur 2000 corresponding to the aid applications submitted for the calendar year 2015.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) to assist the member states in the implementation of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). the regulation provides that the total amount of the reserve shall be eur 2 800 million, with equal annual instalments of eur 400 million (2011 prices) for the period 2014-2020. it also provides that this adjustment rate should only be applied to direct payments exceeding eur 2 000. the application of this adjustment rate will result in the reduction of the amounts of direct payments for budget lines relating to expenditure relating to aid applications submitted by farmers, as regards the calendar year 2015 (financial year 2016). the total reduction resulting from the application of this mechanism is eur 441,6 million and the adjustment rate will be 1,393041%. we agree with the constitution of this reserve. two aspects, however, deserve greater consideration:- the need to supplement the reserve with additional funds from the eu budget (not taken from direct payments) in the face of severe crises;- the possibility of introducing the principle of progressiveness, with differentiated, higher rates for the highest payments.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider it essential to safeguard financing for the agricultural sector in the event of natural or other disasters affecting agricultural production and distribution.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the report setting the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for the calendar year 2015. this ensures that the special reserve to support farmers in the event of a serious crisis is financed, making it unnecessary to use additional financial discipline measures.
‒ i agree with the reduction of direct payments, as provided for in article 26 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013, with the aim of creating a reserve to provide additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of serious crises affecting agricultural production or distribution, as provided for in article 25 of the same regulation. moreover, it is recommended to adjust the adjustment rate for direct payments where the forecasts for the financing of measures financed under this sub-ceiling for a given financial year indicate that the applicable annual ceilings will be exceeded. the proposed rate of reduction of 1,393041% to the part of direct payments over eur 2000 under the support schemes listed in annex i to regulation (eu) no 1307/2013 to farmers corresponding to the aid applications submitted for the calendar year 2015 deserves my vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour because i consider it crucial to ensure respect for the principle of equal treatment of farmers. in this regard, since financial discipline measures are necessary in order not to exceed the amounts of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector in respect of a given calendar year, the adjustment rate should not be applied to payments for which aid applications have been submitted in calendar years other than the calendar year to which financial discipline applies.
‒ in order to support the agricultural sector in situations of serious crises that may affect production and/or distribution, the european commission has proposed the creation of a financial reserve of eur 2 800 million, established by applying, at the beginning of each year, a reduction in direct payments through a financial discipline mechanism. the large added value of this regulation is the result of applying the adjustment rate only to direct payments above eur 2000 which safeguards and exempts small producers. the application of this adjustment rate, which shall be 1,393041%, will lead to a reduction in the amounts of direct payments for budget lines relating to expenditure relating to aid applications submitted by farmers for the calendar year 2015. i therefore support this proposal and i give my vote in favour.
‒ the crisis reserve of the common agricultural policy, which is set up through this procedure, is a last resort in cases of extreme crisis which, by its nature, requires the contribution and solidarity of all farmers and direct payment beneficiaries. the proposal exempts from this contribution all beneficiaries whose annual amount received is equal to or less than eur 2000 and i am of the opinion that this exemption should be set at a higher amount. the russian embargo has tested the crisis management instruments we have in the european union to deal with serious imbalances in agricultural markets, where sectors such as milk and fruit and vegetables have been particularly affected. so far, it has been possible to use instruments other than the crisis reserve. i hope that the new european commission will have the political will to develop appropriate instruments for prevention and for situations of widespread crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not left behind.
in writing. ‒ the need for a reserve for crisis situations is not in question. it is the fact that this cap is itself a permanent factor in the crisis. the last reform has maintained scandalous inequalities in the distribution of cap funds between countries, production and producers. liberalisation and market orientation are the watchwords. millions of small and mediumsized farmers know the meaning of these words: prices that do not compensate for production, the ruin of millions of farms, the concentration of production, the increase in food dependence and the imbalance in the agri-food balances of several countries. competitiveness is another buzzword. but some receive double or triple the per-acre payments that others receive. it's easy to be competitive like that. in portugal, many thousands of small and medium-sized farmers struggle to survive and stay in business, with production prices that often do not cover production costs. for these, it is not the 500 euro parks, which will receive a one-off payment, that will end the crisis.
in writing. ‒ several indicators show that member states have moved towards greater gender equality. this form of inequality, however, remains a frequent reality, affecting women above all. parliament should play an active role in promoting equality, in particular by contributing to the definition of a european strategy. however, it should not interfere with the competences of the member states, nor take advantage of reports which should aim at the widest possible consensus, to make considerations which are imminently within the domain of national law or of the convictions of each one, such as the case of abortion. i agree with the general thrust of this report, but i have decided to abstain.
‒ progress in the eu has been slow and there is still much to be done in the coming years. the eu is preparing a new strategy for equality between men and women after 2015. gender equality is one of the founding principles of the european union. the 2014-2015 gender equality strategy contains a set of commitments that are evaluated each year in a report by the european commission. the european union needs a new strategy with effective measures to deal with the issue and suggest ways to continue the evaluation. at the same time, new and lasting forms are needed, with binding and non-binding measures, which take into account the various forms of discrimination faced by women. it is recalled that the european parliament has already voted in favour of a gender balance in the boards of directors and the fight against violence against women.
‒ this report takes a critical, though light-hearted, look at some of the policies pursued over the past five years on gender equality in the eu. it considers that at eu level, some goals remain to be achieved on the way to genuine gender equality, covering all aspects of life, the right to integrity and a life in dignity. it refers to outdated economic models based on an outdated sexual division of labour; violence against women; gender pay gaps; domestic work, childcare and elderly care, which are mainly the responsibility of women; and the failure of policies aimed at a work-life balance. it reaffirms that poverty is mainly a female problem, which has been aggravated by the economic crisis, precarious part-time jobs, low wages and pensions, difficulty in accessing basic social and health services and the disappearance of jobs, particularly in the public sector, among other important aspects. we voted in favour, although there are some aspects of the report from which we disassociate ourselves. this is the case with quotas, the paragraph legitimising the european semester and the concept of 'forced prostitution'.
‒ i voted in favour, despite the rejection of several amendments by the gue/ngl linked to such important issues as austerity measures and their negative impact on gender equality and equal rights for migrants in the eu, as well as others linked to lgbti rights. i think very important issues have been included, such as an inclusive definition of family, which recognises single parenting and lgbti parenting, as well as the right to legal and safe abortion, not to mention the call to the european commission to include sexual and reproductive health and rights in the eu health strategy.
‒ while i support all initiatives to eradicate violence against women and against gender discrimination at legislative, cultural and political levels, i believe that matters which are sociologically sensitive and deeply divisive have been introduced into the text and should be dealt with separately. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the union needs a new strategy to give greater impetus to the promotion of gender equality. the statistics show that we have made considerable progress. however, huge inequalities remain. in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, i consider it essential to support initiatives and strategies for reconciling work and family life, in particular through a network of school support, tax support and job flexibility. i also agree that we should focus on the importance of family planning and training through education. i cannot, however, agree with the criterion of equal treatment and gender equality as a prerequisite for the award of public contracts, nor with the conditioning of our support to developing countries. i would like to stress once again that our relations with third countries must take account of the achievement of gender equality. i believe that this document deals with controversial issues which concern each member state in particular, and i therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. as a supporter of the development of a strategy for equality between men and women and having therefore supported the alternative resolution tabled by my political group, i voted against the strategy put forward by the socialist rapporteur because i do not see myself in these proposals put forward by the left.
‒ the economic crisis and the resulting austerity measures have not treated men and women equally. women were at a disadvantage and this was accentuated. many european governments have implemented measures that exacerbate the negative effect of the economic crisis on women. we are witnessing a regression in the progress made towards gender equality and we must be able to give a sensitive and firm response in an attempt to reverse this trend. we have to do something. we can't just sit around and wait for things to work themselves out. the economic crisis cannot be used as a pretext to aggravate (even more) social and gender inequalities by taking away the rights that have been won. on the contrary, it is times of crisis that serve as a test of our humanity. the dominant growth model and the policy guidelines that have underpinned it do not serve these purposes. there is always an alternative that does not involve violating human rights. we make the choices. it is possible to reconcile economic growth with high human development and gender equality rates. you just have to want it. the adoption of the noichl report was a very important step in this direction.
‒ this report takes a critical approach to gender equality policies within the eu, demonstrating, through the analysis of some indicators, that member states have moved towards greater gender equality. in this respect, i believe that the european parliament, as well as the european institutions and the governments of the member states, should play a proactive role in promoting gender equality, while the european institutions should scrupulously respect the principle of subsidiarity as enshrined in the treaties. to that extent, and because i consider that this own-initiative report introduces matters which should be within the sphere of competence of each member state, i have decided not to support the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i strongly support the report by mrs maria noichl. it is a report which is incisive in its diagnosis: it is true that we cannot continue to be trapped in outdated economic models, which are unsustainable from an environmental point of view and are based on an obsolete gender division of labour, which has been superseded by the integration of women into the labour market. it is also clear and determined in what can already be done differently. it called for the immediate correction of a recent injustice by urging the commission and the council to ensure that gender equality is mainstreamed in all strategy 2020 programmes. finally, the report is ambitious, as it could not be otherwise, as regards the role that the european union should play in the world, in collaboration with the member states, including their competent authorities, in promoting gender equality, within or beyond the union's borders, and as regards the need to pursue these objectives, both through the concept of gender mainstreaming in all areas and through specific concrete measures.
in writing. ‒ it is important that this strategy for gender equality moves from paper to practice, which has not happened. this report contains many truths with which we agree. the reality is that equality issues - and in particular the realisation of women's rights - cannot be put on the back burner, as they are deeply linked to the major political and economic choices. and it would be good if the two major political groups would remember this strategy when they reach consensus on so many of the obligations imposed on the member states. because if the eu cuts public services, such as childcare, it is women who suffer the most. one of the major problems with the report is that it does not hold the eu and the troika accountable for the policies that have led to the situation we are in today, namely the backsliding on women's rights. the report also argues that child and elderly care services and health services should be 'affordable services' and not public services, as we advocate. we cannot but stress our disagreement with the term 'forced prostitution'. nevertheless, and in view of the general thrust of the report, we voted in favour.
‒ technological developments, increasingly globalised trade, e-commerce and outsourcing have created the need for new measures to combat rights violations in third countries. among other measures, the strategy seeks to help identify countries where the protection and/or enforcement of intellectual property rights is weak. i share the view that it is important for the eu and the european parliament to show that they are serious about this and that they want to help improve the intellectual property rights system.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the latter are required to protect the europeans materially, on condition that they do not export or establish themselves on the markets of those countries. the resolution calls for the protection of intellectual property rights in the ttip negotiations, thereby legitimising it, its instruments and objectives. as you would expect, it makes it a model for all other free trade agreements. the resolution discriminates against the populations of the poorest countries in access to healthcare, justifying it by the need to take account of 'market distortions caused by the resale of medicines' in these countries. the clear option is to safeguard the interests of the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the concrete need for access to essential health goods, which is often urgent. the resolution makes the 'granting of market economy status' to the poorest countries conditional on the protection of european interests in these countries and makes the freedom of trade conditional on such protection, on ratification of the wipo treaties on trade marks, performing arts, phonograms and copyright, on condition that there is no foreign investment in these countries. these and many other reasons justify our vote against.
‒ i voted against this report because i believe it does not take into account the specific needs of developing countries, where intellectual property rights are often used to undermine their industrial and development policies. the report also addresses the issue of access to medicines from the perspective of the pharmaceutical industry alone, calling into question the right of access to medicines. the eu should have learned from the recent ebola crisis that research into new medicines should be guided by public health rather than market considerations. the need for an intellectual property rights system that contains a fair and appropriate balance between rights holders and the protection of the public interest in access to knowledge, natural resources and health is far from the horizon of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. i share the approach taken in the european parliament resolution to step up the protection of european ipr in relations with its trading partners, with the aim of developing the competitiveness of the knowledge and innovation-based economies and combating the parallel economies that feed organised crime through counterfeit products, which can also involve serious risks to the health and safety of consumers.
‒ the intellectual property industry accounts for about 39% of the eu's gross domestic product and directly and indirectly employs about 35% of all employment in the eu. despite its vitality and size, the european union loses €8 billion of its gross domestic product annually to counterfeiting and piracy. this report deserves my vote in favour because it recognises that intellectual property is one of the keys to growth and innovation and because it stresses the importance of combating counterfeiting and piracy.
‒ i voted in favour, because i believe that although the european commission's communication contains many positive aspects, there are others that need to be improved and deepened.
‒ intellectual property rights make a decisive contribution to the development of creativity and innovation. their protection is a key challenge in the course of our day which deserves our attention and concern. i agree with the rapporteur that the european union must have an ambitious and coherent strategy to protect intellectual property rights, just as i believe that this strategy should not only be extended to eu member states but also to third countries.
‒ the purpose of this own-initiative report is to contribute to the definition of a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. recent studies show that ipr-intensive sectors account for some 39% of eu gdp and account for 35% of total employment. however, it is estimated that the eu is losing around €8 billion of its annual gdp to counterfeiting and piracy. it is therefore urgent to define a 'strategy for the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries', given that this is a key sector for the eu's growth, innovation and industrial competitiveness at global level. i agree with this resolution overall and stress the need to improve data collection on goods held at eu borders, to improve the international ipr framework, especially at the level of the conclusion of bilateral trade agreements (where adequate and effective protection of protected rights holders must be ensured), as well as the recognition and effective protection of geographical indications and access to the wto dispute settlement body for ipr infringement cases.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the latter are required to protect the europeans materially, on condition that they do not export or establish themselves on the markets of those countries. the resolution calls for the protection of intellectual property rights in the ttip negotiations, thereby legitimising it and its instruments and objectives. as you would expect, it makes it a model for all other free trade agreements. the resolution discriminates against the populations of the poorest countries in access to healthcare, justifying it by the need to take account of 'market distortions caused by the resale of medicines' in these countries. the clear option is to safeguard the interests of the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the concrete need for access, often urgent, to essential health goods. the resolution makes the 'granting of market economy status' to the poorest countries conditional on the protection of european interests in these countries and makes the freedom of trade conditional on such protection, on ratification of the wipo treaties on trade marks, phonograms and copyright, or on no foreign investment in these countries. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the eu action plan focuses mainly on responding to infringements on a commercial scale and raising awareness among citizens of the problem of intellectual property. an effective campaign is needed, especially among the younger generation, involving the criminalisation of the individual user. another aspect which i agree with is the need to support small and mediumsized enterprises in the enforcement of their rights.
‒ this is an own-initiative report on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr), covering economic, social and health issues. the report is extensive in its content. while some general principles may merit our support, particularly as regards the remuneration of artists (copyright is an integral part of intellectual property), there are other aspects which cannot merit our support: for example, the proposal for operators to exchange information among themselves in order to prevent infringement of intellectual property rights as early as possible. we have put forward a proposal in the national parliament on sharing, a proposal which is innovative, not only at national level but also at european level. this report, while talking about internet operators and the 'follow the money' strategy, does not go as far as it could and should, and merely urges operators to reduce the profits made on the basis of sharing. we are proposing the taxation of operators, which is clearly something different. the report also calls on operators to find ways of banning access to websites and preventing the provision of content in more permanent ways than the current ones (which is the opposite of what we are proposing), reasons why we cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is based, among other things, on the idea that strengthening intellectual property rights is crucial for economic development, an idea with which i could not disagree more. on the other hand, it is very vague on the question of data protection, which i consider essential. finally, this proposal for an 'eu action plan' does not provide for a flexible approach that fairly includes the different creators. for all these reasons, i voted against.
‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled 'towards a renewed consensus on the effective protection of intellectual property rights (ipr): an eu action plan'. i share the view expressed in the european parliament's resolution that in order to promote ipr, it is necessary to raise awareness among europeans themselves of its social and economic importance, through an internal action plan, which will be reflected in the future in the effective protection of these rights.
in writing. ‒ infringements of intellectual property rights represent a moral and economic damage for european companies and entail heavy economic and fiscal losses for member states. those offences, including counterfeiting, discourage growth, job creation, innovation and creativity. it is therefore essential to step up efforts to combat the illegal trade in counterfeit goods and to make it clear that no one should profit from infringements of intellectual property rights. this report, which presents a european union action plan on property rights, emphasises the importance of this subject for our market, innovation, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity. i am voting in favour of this report because of the importance of intellectual property and because of the range of measures it contains.
‒ i voted in favour of the view that the implementation of an action plan for the protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to stimulating growth and innovation.
‒ the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union guarantee the protection of intellectual property. in addition to being an important means of wealth generation and job creation, intellectual property rights (ipr) are also a driver of innovation, creativity and competitiveness. now more than ever, consumers need to be informed about what ipr is and what can and cannot be done with protected goods and content, and i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to develop awareness and information campaigns for consumers.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report which aims to contribute to the creation of a european action plan, based on ten points, aimed at defending intellectual property rights. in the light of the subject-matter itself, which encompasses a very wide range of rights, i believe that the main aspects and sectors targeted by this system, especially in economic and social matters, have been listed and defended. the proposals on copyright, consumer protection and aid to smes are particularly noteworthy. i would also like to point out as very positive points the cooperation between national authorities to share best practice, the encouragement of training programmes on intellectual property for each member state in the context of the single market and the commission's proposal to develop, promote and publish a guide to best practice for public authorities to prevent counterfeit transactions. i agree with this report on the whole, which is why i voted in favour of it.
‒ the report is extensive in its content. while some general principles may merit our support, particularly as regards the remuneration of artists (copyright is an integral part of intellectual property), there are other aspects which cannot merit our support. for example, the proposal that operators exchange information among themselves to prevent infringement of intellectual property rights as early as possible. we have put forward a proposal in the national parliament on sharing, a proposal which is innovative, not only at national level but also at european level. this report does not go as far as it could and should and merely urges operators to reduce the profits they make on a share basis. we are proposing the taxation of operators, which is clearly something different. the report also urges operators to find ways to ban access to websites and to prevent content from being made available in more permanent ways than the current ones (which is the opposite of what we propose).
madam president, commissioner, madam representative of the council, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of this important document: elisabetta gardini and giovanni la via. ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the ratification by the european union of the second period of the kyoto protocol. this is an important and unequivocal signal to our external partners of the union's commitment to halting global warming, already embedded in its 2020 energy and climate strategy. we must continue to make efforts and there is much work to be done to secure ambitious and binding commitments at the paris conference of the united nations framework convention on climate change, which will take place later this year and involve 195 countries. in europe, we are making good progress in reducing co2 emissions in certain areas, such as the industrial, energy and housing sectors. we must continue this work. on the other hand, we continue to see co2 emissions in the transport sector rise because of forms of mobility that we have not yet changed, or because we are tied to sectoral interests, or because of technological barriers, or because of the need for huge investments to effect the transition to a new mobility paradigm. but let us not forget that there are also green growth opportunities that will be unleashed by this investment. if we don't take advantage of them, someone else will. at the international level, decisions are imperative and can only be taken at the highest level. the negotiating process cannot be dragged on indefinitely and there are countries for whom climate change is a threat to their very existence. i therefore call for talks to be resumed at ministerial level and at the level of heads of state or government so that we can reach an agreement and overcome a stalemate which has lasted for too long.
in writing. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997, setting a binding target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions at international level. but we know that kyoto has not been ratified by all the major polluters in the world. in particular, it has not been ratified by the us - the world's largest polluter (in absolute terms and per capita) - for decades. in 2012, as the kyoto protocol expired and in the absence of a comprehensive and effective agreement capable of replacing it , it was decided to extend the kyoto protocol, thus prolonging all its weaknesses, including the perverse flexibility mechanisms. the eu has proposed a 20% reduction in its emissions (compared to 1990) for the second commitment period of kyoto. despite the frequent publicity about the eu's 'leadership' role in combating climate change, this figure fell short of the united nations panel on climate change's recommendation of a reduction of at least 25% by 2020. but above all, the biggest problem is that the eu still has a market-based approach to climate change, which is ineffective and perverse, and the carbon market is a prime example of this.
madam president, several important issues arise when we approach a strategy for energy security in europe: the critical importance of progress in energy efficiency in transport, industry and buildings; the need to diversify the sources of energy supply both internally and externally; the increased use of renewable energy and the recognition of the inevitable exhaustion of fossil fuels; the need for major investments in energy production and distribution chains and in research and development of less mature technologies; the need to lift certain member states out of energy isolation. finally, these and other issues will only be properly addressed and implemented within the framework of public, democratic control of the energy sector, including planning, production and distribution of energy. it is not the miraculous virtues of the internal energy market that will ensure the objectives of progress, social justice, sustainability, development. energy is a precious public good which must be rescued from the hands of private monopolies.
mr president, commissioner, the development of the single energy market is one of the areas where the european union has fallen behind in relation to the dynamics of globalisation, technology and the needs of sustainability and competitiveness. external pressure, particularly the conflict with russia, forced a change of attitude. we must therefore seize this opportunity, not only to respond to the immediate challenge, but to give a decisive boost to europe's leadership in the energy transition. we have learned the lesson not to repeat the same mistakes in other dossiers. for example, the digital union dossier which links so strongly with the energy union and which pointed to security threats due to our delays in creating a regulated and transparent single market. but let us return to energy security. the strategic pillars highlighted in this report are appropriate: more efficiency, more own production with priority for renewable and environmentally friendly energy, technological leadership, an integrated market with strong interconnections, diversification of sources and geographical origins of the necessary imports. the implementation of this strategy implies a single market and an energy union. the levels of planning and regulation must be supranational and strengthened. but it also means giving a new impetus to the sustainable growth of the european economy, with a new model of spatial organisation, mobility and social organisation. let's not let ambition die. security and change go hand in hand. energy security and economic change, too. let's take a chance.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy policy is now of central importance for european competitiveness and for the union's climate objectives. we need energy at competitive prices, energy that is safe, energy that is clean. electricity interconnections are essential to balance higher levels of renewable energy penetration into the grid, thus helping to reduce its cost to the final consumer and the taxpayer. i would therefore like to stress the need for binding, not indicative, interconnection capacity targets. furthermore, the gas interconnections and the existing capacity to receive liquefied natural gas in the iberian peninsula can also contribute to the diversification of supply sources, energy security and price convergence in europe. i therefore stress the urgent need to implement the third energy package, to support investments in interconnection infrastructure and to ensure close and real-time monitoring by the european commission of the implementation of these priority projects.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks in paris have re-ignited the debate on police access to databases. with the tragedies in the mediterranean, border management has made headlines. and suddenly, an entry-exit system and a registered traveler program appeared as a solution to both problems. it seems that we have forgotten its original purpose: to facilitate border controls and to know how many overstayers we have in the european union. we continue to ignore the impact of the judgment of the court of justice of the union that annulled the data retention directive, despite the fact that several officials have repeatedly assured us that this impact would not be ignored. and we are persistently moving forward with more and more comprehensive data collection and processing tools. i have no doubt that the safety of citizens should be a priority and that we need to act. but we cannot ignore the work that has been done, we must not underestimate the instruments we have in place whose potential we have not yet fully exploited, nor must we give up identifying and correcting shortcomings in the systems we have before proposing new and costly systems. there is therefore a need for urgent clarifications, such as those requested by colleagues días de mera and tanja fajon. the commission must react to these changes and fulfil the commitment of vice-president timmermans to ensure systematic checks on fundamental rights throughout the legislative process, to clearly define the purpose of the systems and to present an impact assessment that fully demonstrates their need.
‒ the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, established a binding international emission reduction target. the protocol was ratified by the eu in 2002. in march 2012, the council decided to propose a joint quantified commitment of a 20% reduction of the union's emissions below 1990 levels for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this council position was followed by the member states at the doha conference where the amendment to the protocol was adopted. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the protocol, which includes legally binding emission reduction commitments, under which the eu and its member states are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their reference annual emissions. i supported this recommendation, as with this decision to ratify the doha amendment, the eu sends a clear signal regarding the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the urgency for member states to ratify the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol by the end of 2015, with the second commitment period having the support of eu countries in particular. member states are already implementing a 20% reduction in emissions by 2020. a new agreement is in the works with experts and meps joining forces to negotiate the text that will succeed the kyoto protocol, which is expected to be adopted in december 2015 and implemented from 2020.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol (20132020). in 2012, in the absence of a comprehensive and effective agreement capable of replacing it, it was decided to extend the kyoto protocol, extending with it all its fragility, including the perverse flexibility mechanisms. it is, however, the only legally binding emission reduction commitment. the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990). this commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of ghg emissions allowed during the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package and falls short of the one recommended by the united nations panel on climate change, despite all the hype about the eu's 'leadership' role in combating climate change. we supported this resolution, even though we know that we are very different from the majority in parliament on the approach to climate change. the effects of the liberalisation and deregulation of international trade and the absence of criticism of the carbon market are emphasised.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint fulfilment of its commitments. a significant reduction in collective greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions is a clear sign of the eu's efforts and leadership in meeting the kyoto objectives to combat climate change at international level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, as the formal entry into force of the doha amendment is among the european union's priority objectives, considering that the kyoto protocol constitutes a fundamental contribution to global efforts to combat climate change. the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by the european union will send a clear signal with regard to the efforts and leadership of the european union and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990). that commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013 to 2020 under the eu climate and energy package. given the importance of making ambitious commitments to combat climate change, in particular in order to achieve the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c, i voted in favour of this decision to approve the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with commitments to reduce annual average greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-2020. like the rapporteur, i believe that this decision on the joint fulfilment of the european union's commitments will send a clear signal regarding the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in tackling climate change at international level. it is a pity that the countries with the highest pollution rates systematically abstain from participating.
in writing. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change entered into force on 16 february 2005, establishing a set of legally binding emission reduction commitments for the period 2008 to 2012. in 2012, at the doha climate change conference, it was decided to approve an amendment to the kyoto protocol, which would establish a second commitment period, 2013-2020, with equally binding commitments to reduce emissions. the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the period 2013-2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990). this commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package. in view of the commitments mentioned above, i am signing this legislative resolution to proceed with the early entry into force of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol.
‒ all efforts will be limited to achieving the ambitious targets that can mitigate the effects of climate change and one day reverse its effects. this amendment, proposed in doha, is a good step, but it is not enough. we have to be even more ambitious. we owe it to future generations, that is, to our children and grandchildren. in addition to what is stated on paper, it is necessary to ensure rapid adoption and implementation by the member states. it is also essential to encourage the other polluting countries to meet ambitious targets. the united states, china and japan are, along with the european union, the main culprits for the planet's unfortunate environmental condition. as was the case with the call for global ocean governance put forward by commissioner vella during blue week in lisbon last week, the mechanisms for global environmental governance must be strengthened. the timing is exceptional. for exceptional moments, exceptional people and exceptional capacities for mobilization and action are needed. we roll up our sleeves!
‒ iceland is a party to the kyoto protocol which has respected its individual targets during the first commitment period. in 2009, iceland expressed its intention to jointly fulfil its commitments to the european union and its member states in the second commitment period, regardless of whether or not it joins the eu. the council welcomed this request and concluded that the joint length in the second period should include iceland. the agreement between the european union and the member states on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol is a clear signal for coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
‒ the proposal for a council decision provides the basis for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the unfccc. during this period, the country had to limit its emissions increase to below 10% on average. in the end, emissions decreased on average by 2% during this period. the agreement on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change will be a clear signal for coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol (20132020). in 2012, in the absence of a comprehensive and effective agreement capable of replacing it, it was decided to extend the kyoto protocol, extending with it all its fragility, including the perverse flexibility mechanisms. it is, however, the only legally binding emission reduction commitment. the eu, its member states and iceland commit to reducing their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 20% in the period 2013 to 2020. that commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of ghg emissions permitted for the period 2013 to 2020 under the eu climate and energy package, which falls short of the level recommended by the united nations panel on climate change. although iceland is not an eu member state, it intends to fulfil its commitment in this second period of the kyoto protocol, together with the eu and its member states. i'm not against it. that is why we supported this report. as for its participation in the emissions trading scheme, although this is a sovereign decision of iceland, we reiterate our criticism and deep disagreement with it.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the second period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). the eu is a strategic player in the international climate change negotiations and this agreement is further proof of its serious commitment to delivering on its commitments together.
‒ iceland is a party to the kyoto protocol, respecting the commitments made during the first commitment period. the commission, on behalf of the european union and its member states, and iceland concluded in 2014 the negotiations necessary for joint compliance with the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. iceland participates in the eu emission trading scheme (ets) and the greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and reporting mechanism. the rights and obligations that apply to member states in the framework of joint compliance should be applicable to iceland through eu legislation. iceland has shown an interest in participating in joint compliance with the eu and its member states, regardless of whether it is an eu member or not. i am voting in favour of this report because i share the rapporteur's view that the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change will be a clear signal for coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990). this proposal for a council decision provides the basis for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for this second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement, considering it to be another sign of the european union's determination to combat climate change and to define an ambitious policy in this field.
in writing. ‒ although iceland is not an eu member state, it intends to fulfil this second commitment of the kyoto protocol together with the eu and its member states. the rights and obligations that apply to member states in joint compliance have to be applicable to iceland through eu legislation. it is yet another clear signal from the eu to european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol (for the period 2013-2020). in 2012, in the absence of a comprehensive and effective agreement to replace it, it was decided to extend the kyoto protocol, which remains the only legally binding emission reduction commitment. although iceland is not an eu member state, it also intends to fulfil its commitment under the eu climate and energy package with regard to the targets of this 'second period' of the kyoto protocol, together with the eu and its member states. i have voted in favour of this report, as there is no reason to oppose it.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of nuclear safety, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the use of radioactive waste in the transport of nuclear materials. this is a particularly important moment, but it is still insufficient. more countries need to be engaged in fully meeting the targets set out in kyoto and other relevant conventions to combat and mitigate climate change. as with the so-called ozone hole, we need to take swift and decisive action that will make a real difference. does it cost anything? yes, it does have costs, and those are very, very high. yet, what is the price of looking at our children and grandchildren a few years hence and saying that we did not do all that was in our power? i'm not willing to pay that price. it has to be done and done now. i congratulate the european union for aligning itself with iceland, a country that has managed to reduce emissions with a practically wasteful use of fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is mainly technical in nature, gives the european parliament's consent to the european commission making the necessary amendments for croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol of 16 october 2001. it should be noted that there are still a number of instruments which need to be modernised in the field of police and judicial cooperation, especially in criminal matters. on the other hand, i am pleased to see croatia - the newest member state - taking another step towards its integration into the union.
‒ the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union simplified the accession of this country to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states, eliminating the need to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols. however, a technical error affects the provisions of the commission recommendation concerning the date of entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states, which was found to be non-existent by the court of justice of the european union. i agree with the need to correct the agreement.
‒ the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, to which portugal is a party, was approved by us during its discussion in the national parliament, as it deals adequately with questions that are indisputably relevant in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this report follows croatia's accession to the european union and its becoming party to the convention. we voted in favour. unlike the vast majority of eu countries, croatia's integration process has been subject to popular scrutiny, an assertion of sovereignty, albeit in a contradictory act, but one which we respect and accept. it should be noted, however, that the process to which the report refers, although simple, is part of the broader process of croatia's integration into the eu, a process of integration which results in serious attacks on the sovereignty of states and peoples, subjecting them to the logic of capitalist integration in the service of the great powers and the major economic groups.
in writing. ‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 10 june 2015 on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. the entry into force of the instrument in croatia is subject to a decision by the council, which shall act unanimously. croatia undertakes to adapt its domestic law to accession and to facilitate practical cooperation between the institutions and organisations of the member states.
‒ the recommendation for a council decision proposed by the commission seeks to introduce the necessary amendments by reason of the accession of croatia to the abovementioned convention, in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession. in order to clarify any doubts that may exist as to the entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states, and for reasons of legal certainty, i am voting in favour of the commission's recommendation.
‒ in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, a simplified system has been established for the accession of that country to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu, according to which croatia accedes to those instruments by virtue of that act, with the council being empowered to adopt a decision, on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, determining the date on which the conventions enter into force for that new member state and making all the necessary adjustments to that effect. the aim of this recommendation for a council decision proposed by the commission is to make the necessary amendments as a result of croatia's accession to the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and to the protocol of 16 october 2001 thereto. i voted in favour.
‒ the only question is to make the necessary adjustments by reason of the accession of that new member state to the convention.
‒ the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is intended to supplement the provisions of and facilitate the application between the member states of the european union of the european convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the adoption of this resolution therefore follows the accession of croatia to the european union and, as a new member state, croatia should also become a party to this convention. there are no objections to croatia's accession to this convention, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is mainly technical in nature, gives the european parliament's consent to the european commission making the necessary amendments to croatia's accession to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. it should be noted that there are still a number of instruments which need to be modernised in the field of police and judicial cooperation, especially in criminal matters. on the other hand, i am pleased to see croatia - the newest member state - taking another step towards its integration into the union.
‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to conventions and protocols concluded by member states. it is also planned that the council will adopt a decision determining the date on which these conventions enter into force in order for croatia to make all the necessary adaptations to these conventions by virtue of its accession as a member state. however, a technical error affects the provisions of the commission recommendation concerning the date of entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states, which was found to be non-existent by the court of justice of the european union. i agree with the need to correct the agreement.
the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states, to which portugal is also a party, deserves our general agreement. this report follows croatia's accession to the european union and its becoming party to the convention. we voted in favour of the motion, as there was no objection. unlike the vast majority of eu countries, croatia's integration process has been subject to popular scrutiny, an assertion of sovereignty, albeit in a contradictory act, but one which we respect and accept. it should be noted, however, that the process to which the report refers, although simple, is part of the broader process of croatia's integration into the eu, a process of integration which results in serious attacks on the sovereignty of states and peoples, subjecting them to the logic of capitalist integration in the service of the great powers and the major economic groups.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 10 june 2015 on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. under this convention, each member state is obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure that conduct constituting acts of active or passive corruption committed by officials is punishable by criminal law.
‒ the recommendation for a council decision proposed by the commission is designed to make the necessary amendments by reason of the accession of croatia to the abovementioned convention, in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession. in order to clarify any doubts that may exist regarding the entry into force of the convention between croatia and the member states, and for reasons of legal certainty, i am voting in favour of the commission's recommendation.
‒ in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, a simplified system has been established for the accession of that country to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu, according to which croatia accedes to those instruments by virtue of that act, with the council being empowered to adopt a decision, on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, determining the date on which the conventions enter into force for that new member state and making all the necessary adjustments to that effect. the present recommendation for a council decision proposed by the commission is intended to make the necessary amendments by reason of the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. i voted in favour.
in writing. the only adjustments required by reason of the accession of that new member state to the convention are to be made.
‒ the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or eu member states establishes the obligation of member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that active and passive corruption, as defined by the convention, is considered a criminal offence at national level. as with the convention on mutual legal assistance, the adoption of this resolution follows croatia's accession to the european union and croatia should therefore also become a party to this convention. i have voted in favour of this report because there are no obstacles to its accession.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. in addition to these military actions, a number of domestic legislative measures restricting freedom of expression and the persecution of minorities are calling into question the spirit of good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia, which are incompatible with the values of the rule of law, democracy and respect for individual freedoms. i support the sanctions against russia and believe that the eu must keep the pressure on the values of peace and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the eu should monitor russia's financial assistance to european political parties, allocate funds to projects aimed at countering russian propaganda and responding to security threats in the black sea following the illegal annexation of crimea. the report calls on the european commission to allocate appropriate funding without delay to concrete projects aimed at countering russian propaganda and disinformation inside and outside the eu. i agree with supporting russian citizens who are fighting for democracy and the rule of law in the country, such as human rights defenders, bloggers, independent media, academics and ngos.
‒ this report confirms the confrontational position that the eu, subservient to the geostrategic interests of nato and the usa, has been deepening towards russia. it is a book about the breakdown of relations between the eu and russia and an approach to the situation in crimea that is completely removed from the context of the conflict in ukraine, where the far right seized power in a coup d'état legitimized by the eu. all this is part of the policy of siege and the bellicose offensive that nato and the united states have been carrying out. this report makes it clear that, among other things, the basis of the conflict with russia is an economic war over spheres of influence, which overrides the sovereign right of each people to decide its own destiny, free from interference. the question of the eu's energy dependence is worth mentioning, as the justification for pursuing the european energy security policy, which among other things provides for the transfer of energy dependence to the us, is being sought. so are the unacceptable instruments of interference, of which the explicit support for the alleged 'ngos' that the eu funds and which, acting inside russia, are elements of mere political destabilisation is a simple example. we voted against it.
‒ i did not vote in favour of this report, which considers that 'russia, contrary to the spirit of good neighbourly relations and in violation of international law, rules and norms, has deliberately taken actions aimed at destabilising its neighbouring countries through illegal trade embargoes or the conclusion of treaties (...) ', which may describe russia's action, but also describes exactly what the european union has been doing through sanctions, political, economic or military pressure in various parts of the world, especially in the region in the eu's and russia's neighbourhood. there are many rivalries between the eu's international policy and russia's international policy, not because they are so different, but precisely because they are so similar and they are competing for dominance in the same geographical space, where they use their influence in rival groups that fight politically and militarily on the ground, waving the russian and eu flags, without any respect for the interests of the peoples, development and peace in the region. my strong disapproval of the eu's foreign policy does not imply any sympathy or support for its rivals who do not respect fundamental human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the state of relations between the european union and russia. russia, with its actions in crimea and eastern ukraine, can hardly be considered a 'strategic partner'. strategic partnerships should be based on mutual trust and respect for international law, which recognises democracy, the sovereignty of states, territorial integrity, respect for the rule of law and human rights.
‒ over the past decades, the european union has been working to build a strategic partnership with russia based on shared values and principles, such as democracy and the rule of law. however, the recent positions adopted by russia require a position from the european union. i am voting in favour of this report, which strongly condemns the illegal annexation of crimea, russia's support for ukrainian separatists and the recent ban on entry to russia for several european politicians. i therefore express my support for the maintenance or even the strengthening of european sanctions against russia at the next european council in june. i believe that a normal relationship between the european union and russia can only be established when the russian authorities leave the territory of ukraine and respect the primacy of human rights and territorial freedom.
‒ russia's involvement in the armed conflict in ukraine and the illegal annexation of crimea, as well as the violation of georgia's territorial integrity and the economic coercion and political destabilisation of its european neighbours, constitute a deliberate violation of democratic principles, fundamental values and international law. equally worrying is the deterioration of the rule of law, human rights, political rights and civil liberties that has been witnessed in russia in recent years, as well as the arbitrary measure taken by the authorities to ban eu politicians and officials from entering russian territory. in this context, the eu cannot of course fail to critically reassess its relations with russia. in the long term, it would of course be important for the eu and russia to be able to establish a constructive relationship, but the relaunch of this cooperation can only be achieved in a context of dialogue and full respect for international law, implying russia's respect for ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, the full implementation of the minsk agreements and the cessation of all destabilising activities at the borders of the member states.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the european union and its member states rethink the bilateral agreements concluded with russia. the violation (in 2008) of georgia's territorial integrity and the illegal annexation of crimea were situations constantly denounced. in addition, there are situations on russian territory that are less denounced but that we cannot ignore, such as the constant disregard for human rights and gender equality, and also towards religious minorities. it is imperative that the european union takes an active stance in future strategic partnerships that may be concluded with russia, never forgetting the breach of principles given the recent events in ukraine.
‒ this report draws attention to the deliberate and systematic violation of democratic principles and fundamental values of international law by russia through its direct and indirect participation in the armed conflict in ukraine, the illegal annexation of crimea, the violation of the territorial integrity of georgia, and the economic coercion and political destabilisation of its european neighbours. the eu must therefore review its approach to relations with russia, which will require the development of a non-binding contingency plan and a detailed plan for future relations with russia and its eastern european partners. despite the growing concern and social alarm over the violations of human and minority rights, there is a belief that a constructive and predictable relationship between the eu and russia will be possible in the long term, within a framework of mutual dialogue and cooperation based on respect for international law. to do so, russia will have to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea, comply with the minsk agreements and cease military destabilising activities on the eu's borders.
in writing. ‒ global energy demand is increasing, forecast to increase by 27% by 2030. currently, more than 50% of the eu's energy needs are met by external suppliers, making the eu vulnerable in terms of its energy policy. i believe that a common, coordinated and strong eu strategy is vital to moderate demand through energy efficiency on the one hand and to increase own energy production and define measures for an integrated, coordinated and effective internal energy market on the other. the current geopolitics have demonstrated what the european parliament has been saying on many occasions. the eastern partners are not reliable when they use energy supply as a political weapon. so sources and supply routes must be diversified, and efforts must also be stepped up to implement projects for strategic energy infrastructure in europe. i regret that not all member states are equally committed to the objective of interconnectedness of networks and systems, in particular in connecting the iberian peninsula to the rest of the eu. the energy island phenomenon must be brought to an end.
‒ the eu's over-reliance on imports from russia, demand moderation, prices, renewable energy, the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, levels of electricity and gas interconnection and investment are some of the issues addressed in this report. it should be noted that the eu imports 53% of its total energy consumption. the main challenges in this area are the creation of an energy union, demand moderation, increasing own energy production, developing energy technologies, achieving a fully integrated internal energy market, diversifying external supply and the need for coordination and solidarity between all member states.
‒ the report contains some guidelines which deserve our agreement. the exclusive competence of the member states to define their energy targets, the need to find solutions and compromises in terms of technologies (technologically neutral approach) and prices, which will make it possible to support reindustrialisation processes, and the key role of renewable energies are highlighted. other guidelines raise serious doubts and others deserve our full disagreement and opposition. the main points of view are: the market is seen as playing a decisive role in the management of energy issues, even if mitigated by possible mechanisms of solidarity; consumers are seen as becoming investors in energy assets; there is no clear and specific reference to the issue of the lack of energy resources (in the case of fossil fuels); and there is no consideration of strong state intervention, particularly in energy production and distribution and planning. but overall, the negative and even very negative aspects are the ones that prevail, and they end up weighing clearly more heavily than anything positive that the resolution might have.
in writing. ‒ we cannot continue to treat energy as a source of profit and income for multinationals and monopolies. energy is a common good and any european energy strategy must take this into account. the strategy outlined in this report is also to defend nuclear energy or the exploitation of shale gas. it is true that the report mentions a change in the energy model, but it is all a deliberate and misleading misunderstanding, because the 'new' model to which the report is aiming is a model of dependence, which is unsustainable, asymmetrical and socially unfair, in other words, the complete opposite of what it should be. i could not help but vote against it.
‒ despite the increasing focus on renewable energy and the diversification of energy sources, the european union still imports 53% of its total energy consumption, namely 85% of oil, 67% of gas, 41% of solid fuels and around 95% of uranium. it should also be noted that the eu is highly dependent on russian energy sources. i am in favour of fusion and i believe that more strategic studies are needed on the banning of nuclear energy and the future use of shale gas. however, because i believe that it is necessary to go further into energy issues in such fundamental areas as energy security and energy independence, i have decided to abstain in the final vote. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress the special importance which must be attached to the outermost regions, which have natural economic, social and territorial constraints and where energy supply is becoming more difficult and more costly.
in writing. ‒ the eu's external energy bill is over €1 billion per day €400 billion in 2013 and more than a fifth of the eu's total imports, largely dependent on a single country, the russian federation, which is the largest source of imports of oil (35%), gas (26%), coal (30%) and uranium (25%), often using its energy resources as a political weapon. the prosperity and security of the eu require the rational use of energy and a stable, affordable and sustainable energy supply. energy security is also political independence. it is therefore essential to develop an energy security strategy based on technology and the decarbonisation of energy resources. energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure are three pillars that do not compromise our future.
‒ following the serious ukrainian crisis, the european commission proposed a european strategy for energy security in may 2014 and the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament decided to draw up an own-initiative report on this issue. this report was structured to try to respond to the future challenges of the union in terms of its energy policy, stressing from the outset the importance of achieving the objective of the 'european energy union', the promotion of energy saving and efficiency, the increase of domestic energy production, the focus on technological innovation/research and development, the identification of constraints and the creation of european legislation that allows the development of a fully integrated european energy market, as well as in external terms, the diversification of energy sources and the absolute need for a single discourse across the union. unfortunately, differences between the various political groups on the setting of binding energy efficiency targets, the use of nuclear energy or the legislative framework for shale gas exploitation led to the failure of this report and i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ there have long been doubts about the investigative activities of this body, in particular the dragging of investigations, sometimes for years, and the disregard of the rules on the protection of the persons concerned. now questions are being raised about the disregard for the supervisory rules and the independence of this body. this resolution is based on the 2014 annual report of the supervisory committee (cf) of olaf (european anti-fraud office) and its recommendations. in this report, doubts are raised as to the opening of 423 cases in one day by a single decision of the director-general of olaf, without adequate assessments of the information received on any of the cases examined by the jf having been made. most of the cases show no evidence of evaluation activity. the report also states that the olaf dg does not take into account the recommendations of the cf, notes the insufficient information provided to the cf to enable it to perform its task and the absence of dialogue between the two bodies, leaving the cf unable to supervise the independence of olaf, and that there is a clear divergence as to the role and function of the cf by the two bodies. these are among the issues addressed in this resolution, which we consider timely and relevant, and we therefore voted in favour of it.
‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. it is a legal imperative that the requirements laid down for the opening of an investigation be complied with, which olaf must follow. i would stress the need for olaf and the supervisory committee to cooperate in order to improve the information transmitted and to fulfil olaf's commitment to inform the supervisory committee of the number of complaints received and the speed with which they are dealt with.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that measures must be taken to ensure olaf's independence and at the same time that the olaf supervisory committee has the conditions and resources it needs to fulfil its mandate.
in writing. the annual activity report of the olaf supervisory committee records that, when olaf was reorganised on 1 february 2012, 423 cases were opened on the same day by a single decision of the director-general (dg) of the office. the opening of these cases was in contradiction with the legal requirement to open an investigation, which requires that there is a sufficiently serious suspicion of fraud, corruption or other illegal activity likely to affect the financial interests of the union. in this regard, parliament stresses olaf's responsibility for complying with the legal requirements concerning the opening of an investigation, noting further that, of the 423 cases opened in february 2012, only 8.4% resulted in recommendations this signals the insubstantiality of olaf's decisions and the lack of transparency in its accountability. finally, the european parliament resolution calls on olaf to consider a redistribution of resources, having pointed out an imbalance in the distribution of human resources; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. i voted in favour.
‒ this joint resolution is based on the analysis of the 2014 annual report of the olaf (european anti-fraud office) supervisory committee (cf) and its recommendations. the report also notes that the director-general of olaf has not taken into account the recommendations of the supervisory board (cf), that the cf does not have sufficient information to carry out its duties and that there is a lack of understanding between the two bodies, which means that the cf has a limited scope for supervising olaf's action and independence. the report also requires olaf to comply with legal requirements in order for the cf to fulfil one of its essential functions, namely the monitoring of the duration of olaf investigations. this report by the cor was considered appropriate and relevant, and in view of the above and the more consistent content of the report, i believe that this resolution deserves my welcome and my vote in favour.
in writing. the recent events in hungary and the statements by its prime minister cannot but be the subject of extreme concern on the part of the other member states and the european institutions. echoes of the past, which we thought were outdated, are again plaguing europe, contradicting the values and principles on which it is founded. i consider it wrong and imprudent, in the path of winning the popular vote, to wave the hand of the reintroduction of the death penalty (whose abolition, it should be stressed, is a precondition for eu membership, being an act contrary to the values enshrined in article 2 of the eu treaty). i cannot but condemn, in the same way, the discriminatory and xenophobic nature of some of the questions on migration in a popular consultation. the sovereign right of a state to consult its people loses its meaning and its democratic character when it is not exercised with responsibility and respect for the dignity of the human person, the principle of equality and fundamental rights. i hope that the common sense of the hungarian people prevails, that the recent past of their own countrymen is seen and that, through the impulses of circumstantial expediency, the path that hungary has conquered in democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights is not tarnished.
‒ the situation of fundamental rights in hungary, the recent statements by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in the country, a controversial public consultation on immigration and the eu's reaction to these latest developments deserve special attention. the european commission has stated that the reintroduction of the death penalty would be contrary to european values and that, in the event of a serious and persistent breach of eu values, consideration should be given to suspending some of the rights of the member state concerned, including the voting right of the representative of the government of that member state in the council. i agree with the european commission's position.
in the light of the above, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by industrial activities, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of chemicals, and the protection of the environment. there is a structural line here which we cannot agree with and which deserves our denunciation. this resolution assumes that the european union is based on a set of values, freedom, democracy and human rights, some of which are formally enshrined in the treaties, but which are in practice challenged on a daily basis. the resolution also makes an unacceptable set of proposals. it is absurd to identify the eu as a champion of democracy, even more so in the current context, culminating in an unacceptable proposal to create a genuine ranking of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, a tool of the commission on the member states, the consequences of which can only result in greater intervention and interference, contrary to the principle of democracy it claims to defend.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because we cannot be complicit with the government of a member state which systematically calls these values into question, for example by announcing the reintroduction of the death penalty, or by launching a public consultation which, in addition to actively discriminating against immigrant citizens, incites hatred against them. it is regrettable that the council has not reacted to these questions, which are added to so many other systematic violations by hungary of the principles of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. it is therefore essential to immediately start an in-depth monitoring process on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, analysing the potential serious breach of the values on which the union is founded. it is of the utmost importance that the commission submit a proposal for the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights as an instrument for the observance and implementation of the charter and the treaties, as well as a proposal to carry out an annual impartial assessment of the situation of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law in all member states, without distinction and on an equal basis.
‒ the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights are not compatible with the reintroduction of the death penalty. the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition for membership of the european union. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution condemning the escalation of events which undermine the basic values of the european union.
‒ prime minister viktor orbán recently came to introduce the discussion on the death penalty in hungary, as well as on the situation of immigrants. i am voting in favour of this resolution, which strongly condemns any kind of reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary, and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is an integral part of the hungarian constitution, must be respected. i also believe that the primary law of any member state of the european union or of any country applying for accession to the union must reflect and respect the basic european values, in particular democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i also strongly condemn the resurgence of nationalism and extremist parties, both left and right, which make simplistic and irresponsible political statements that are detached from european reality.
parliament stressed that the eu was not prepared to accept the death penalty as a punishment for crimes against humanity, and that it was not prepared to accept the death penalty as a punishment for crimes against humanity. it called for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. the death penalty is incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights on which the union was founded. as such, to initiate a debate on its possible reinstatement is a clear break with the values on which the union is founded and which bring its member states together. parliament called on the commission to present a tool for monitoring compliance with the charter and the treaties, which would ensure an annual assessment of the situation of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, based on objective, universal and impartial indicators, assessing the emergence of a systemic threat to the eu's foundations.
‒ this is a resolution which makes it clear that the eu will not accept any changes to the legal systems of its member states which run counter to its fundamental principles of respect for human dignity. the death penalty or xenophobia are incompatible with these principles and hungary cannot remain hostage to viktor orbán's provocations.
‒ turkey is a strategic partner of the european union and an important regional player, which in itself would justify a close monitoring of developments in the country. the starting point of this report is, however, turkey's commitment to meet the copenhagen criteria, to undertake satisfactory and effective reforms, to maintain good neighbourly relations and to proceed with progressive harmonization with the eu. the report correctly identifies many areas which are legitimately of concern to us. but just recently, the country held legislative elections that resulted in the most diverse parliament in its history. it is therefore to be expected that the process of democratization, which has suffered some setbacks in recent years, will be able to resume. as the report also states, the efforts made by the country to take in 1.6 million refugees from iraq and syria and to strengthen cooperation with the european union in the fight against human trafficking are to be commended, given that since the beginning of the year the departure of ships from turkish ports has been intensifying. for all these reasons, i support this report.
‒ the reforms in turkey, the situation of democracy and human rights in the country, corruption, freedom of the press and of expression, the kurdish question, the negotiations with the pkk, the independence of the judiciary and genocide are all aspects which have undergone changes in recent times. the eu remains committed to further enlargement as a key policy to promote peace, democracy, security and prosperity in europe, and turkey has committed itself to meeting the copenhagen criteria, to undertaking satisfactory and effective reforms, to maintaining good neighbourly relations and to pursuing progressive harmonisation with the eu. however, there are still several constraints in the areas of separation of powers, the fight against corruption and organised crime, freedom of assembly and peaceful demonstration, freedom of expression and media, women's rights, religious freedom, the rights of persons belonging to (national) minorities and the fight against discrimination against vulnerable groups such as roma and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) persons, which turkey should continue to take firm steps to overcome.
‒ this resolution assesses the process of turkey's accession to the eu. we have not failed to classify this document, along with others of a similar kind concerning other countries, as an instrument of interference, of subjugating countries and of attacking their sovereignty, but we have noted the most careful and subtle tone with which the matter is approached, a demonstration of the hypocrisy with which both sides are treated in the light of their geostrategic and political relevance. the impasse over the real intention to bring turkey into the eu is clear, a game of contradictions between the economic interests that justify this course and the geopolitical interests that would make the weight of the great european powers, in particular germany, fall. the maintenance of the pkk as a terrorist organisation and turkey's alignment with nato policies are other negative examples of the resolution. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. reasons of solidarity with the cypriot cause and people are not alien to our abstention. under other circumstances we would vote against.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i believe that we cannot ignore the fact that turkey continues to occupy part of cypriot territory. the gue/ngl tabled an amendment to include in the report the mention of a bi-communal and bi-zonal federation with a single sovereignty, with a single international legal personality and a single citizenship, with political equality between the two communities and equal opportunities for all citizens on a demilitarised island, which was incomprehensibly rejected by the majority.
‒ i voted in favour of the report presented by the european parliament on the progress made by turkey. the reform process in the context of the eu accession negotiations may provide an opportunity for turkey to develop a robust democratic system with strong institutions in order to strengthen its relationship with the european union. however, i would stress that the question of fundamental freedoms and human rights must be carefully assessed and that no disregard can be tolerated. on the question of building good neighbourly relations, i regret the recent developments and stress that this is essential if effective reforms are to be undertaken in order to continue the process of democratisation and modernisation.
‒ since the start of accession negotiations in 2005, turkey has made enormous progress towards establishing a democratic, pluralistic system with strong institutions that benefit growth and social development. the same 2014 report identifies progress made and underlines that turkey is a strategic partner for the union. progress is urgently needed on measures relating to human rights, freedom of the press and pluralism as the basis for the creation of a genuine rule of law. we must also stress turkey's role in neighbourhood issues and its role in hosting refugees. i believe, however, that the union must make efforts to solve the cyprus problem. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution and believe that the union's relations with turkey are essential for the creation of a security cord in our region.
‒ turkey's geostrategic importance and the need to preserve european influence in a zone of instability set the terms of the eu's neighbourhood policy, guiding its future course. since 2005, the eu has initiated a long process of accession negotiations with turkey, which was hampered by the country's successive setbacks in implementing the reforms outlined in the ec-turkey association agreement and the additional protocol. the failure to comply with the provisions of the said agreement and protocol jeopardises the desired harmonisation of turkey's policies with those of the eu, thus affecting confidence in the negotiating process. in this connection, the european parliament's motion for a resolution distinguishes between the points which deserve special attention and particular efforts, such as the separation of powers, the fight against corruption and organised crime, freedom of peaceful assembly and demonstration, freedom of expression and the media, among others. i am voting in favour, in the hope that the commission will follow the call of parliament and its members who, in this motion for a resolution, are calling for a reflection on the way the negotiations have been conducted so far and for consideration of how they can be improved and intensified in the future.
‒ the european union remains committed to pursuing enlargement as a key policy to promote peace, democracy, security and prosperity in europe. as an eu candidate country, turkey needs to redouble its efforts to resolve outstanding bilateral issues, notably in the areas of fundamental rights and justice, including unfulfilled legal obligations and disputes involving its land, sea and air borders with its closest neighbours. turkey must continue to implement political reform in line with the basic principles of the european union. it is important that the european union and its support for the development of this country be closely monitored, particularly in the social integration of refugees, respect for human rights, respect for the social role of women and issues related to culture and education. the results of the last elections, which run counter to european values, have shown that the turkish people want a pluralistic society in political, cultural and religious terms.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as mr ioan paşcu writes in this report, the european union and its member states must not recognise the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, reiterating their commitment to the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine in accordance with the united nations charter and the 1994 budapest protocol. in view of the annexation of crimea and the continued occupation of south ossetia and abkhazia in georgia, member states need to have a joint security response prepared for the challenges posed by russia in the black sea basin and the consequent changes in the geostrategic context and military situation. this response should be reflected in the review of the european security strategy and the european maritime safety strategy. given the potential for instability and, in particular, europe's dependence on the black sea for the transit of energy supplies, the european union has a strategic interest in dissuading regional actors from adopting a reckless policy stance, if necessary by mobilising european naval and aerospace assets to the black sea. we must also act diplomatically to persuade russia to end hostilities and respect the minsk agreements, but if putin continues to orchestrate separatist forces in donbass and destabilise ukraine in mariupol, odessa and other areas, we must strengthen sanctions against the regime in moscow, targeting them specifically against the oligarchy that putin supports. it is therefore vital that the member states of the european union stand united and refrain from equipping russia militarily, risking breach of international law and the sanctions framework.
mr president, what has been happening in the black sea basin is still the result of the disintegration of the soviet union and the traumatic effects this has had on the old russian nation. the disintegration of the soviet union was not only the end of an ideological model, it certainly was, but it also corresponded, historically, to a loss of power and influence by russia. this has obviously had a traumatic effect on the russians and has led them to adopt a series of behaviours which are obviously unacceptable and have been duly condemned by very large sections of the international community, the united nations, the european union. and the sanctions policy that has been followed has been the most correct policy. this does not, however, prevent us from considering that any security policy for the black sea must be based above all on the diplomatic component and that we must never lose sight of the importance of ensuring a long-term relationship with russia. russia is our neighbour and we can never lose sight of the fact that it is also part of the satisfaction, part of the safeguarding of our fundamental geopolitical and geoeconomic interests to safeguard the future relationship with russia.
mr president, corruption and money laundering in football and other sports is not limited to the lines of the pitch and the provision of players and referees. it involves millions associated with sponsorships, player transfers, broadcast rights, bidding for sporting events, major construction companies and every sports federation in the world. european sports clubs and events have been associated with corrupt and autocratic governments that launder money and buy their promotion in the international sphere, ignoring the human rights of workers who build infrastructure and the rights inherent in massive expropriations to build them. all this with the complicity, by action and omission, of the european financial system and governments. so there you have it, the fbi and the u.s. department of justice have unraveled some of the corruption that has been rampant at fifa, a swiss organization that has long been criticized for its lack of transparency and accountability, its lack of government oversight, scrutiny and due diligence required by large corporations. the european union must act and demand reform of fifa, with the creation of an independent reform committee composed of personalities not paid by fifa, or associated with it, so that they can investigate and issue concrete recommendations, including strict application of the new anti-money laundering directive. the reform cannot come from fifa, which is discredited. part of the reform must include transparency on spending and expenditure, including codes of conduct and mechanisms for scrutiny and sanctioning. if the suspicions of corruption in the selection of russia and qatar for the 2018 and 2022 world cups are confirmed, we demand that the competitions be reopened. fifa must also be called upon to take responsibility for stopping violations of the rights of workers involved in the construction of the infrastructure for those competitions.
mr president, we have just spoken of corruption and human rights violations at fifa, but what a signal other european sports leaders are sending by selecting azerbaijan to host the european games, turning a blind eye to censorship and repression and giving president aliyev what he is seeking: favorable publicity and respectability, which oil money can buy. as preparations for the baku games are winding down, the azerbaijani authorities are racking up persecution and detention of journalists and human rights defenders, banning them from travelling and freezing their assets. i highlight the cases of intigam aliyev and khadija ismail for documenting cases of political prisoners and corruption in power; anar mammadli, bashir suleymanli and elnur mammadov for monitoring the 2013 presidential elections; leyla yunus and her husband arif for criticizing the government; and rasul jafarov for creating the organization "sport for rights". only yesterday, ominously, the osce office in baku was ordered to close, and today amnesty international was prevented from entering the country. the eu is a key partner for azerbaijan in energy, trade and political dialogue, but it is precisely with our partners that we must promote our values most. the european union leaders should not attend the opening ceremonies of the european games in baku.
author. mr president, i think we all share and we all regret and we all have words to say about what is happening in syria, about the lives lost and the destruction that is happening to the cultural and historical heritage sites of humanity. my problem with this debate is not so much what is said, i think we share what is said. my biggest problem is about what's not said and what's not said is that these lives that are lost, these places that are destroyed, they only exist because there are guns, because there is war. and we still refuse in this parliament to take on such basic things as saying that there are responsibilities of countries that sell arms to groups that commit terrorism, to groups that destroy lives, to groups that destroy the cultural heritage and humanity. i would therefore very much like to see us in the vote we are going to have today not just lamenting, having crocodile tears, but moving towards very concrete proposals, particularly with regard to putting a moratorium on the sale of arms to terrorist groups and those who are actually destroying the cultural heritage of humanity, to also put a moratorium on the purchase of oil when we are talking, for example, of oil produced in the territories occupied by the self-proclaimed islamic state. that would be concrete measures, concrete words, so that we can stop talking about the lamentations and the crocodile tears, which, as i said, we always share here. the european countries have a great deal of responsibility in this matter, unfortunately, and so do the european institutions. so what i ask of the members who are here today in this debate is that they support the amendments we have tabled. these are very simple amendments and, as i said, they concern the condemnation of direct or indirect support, in terms of money, in terms of arms, in terms of training, of direct or indirect support to terrorist groups which are destroying this cultural heritage of humanity in syria, which are destroying so many lives. but there is another fundamental issue, mr president, and i will end with this one, which has to do with the systematic appeal that the united nations has made to us in relation to the world food programme, namely the lack of resources to feed the syrian refugees. we must increase these resources and i would also like to see the amendment we are presenting here today adopted, because otherwise we will continue to have these debates but no concrete action that can change people's lives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a debate on human rights, based on a specific, particularly heinous and tragic case in paraguay. in reality, fundamental values of the human person are at stake here. this ten-year-old child was, in fact, the victim, or is the victim, of two crimes: one committed by his own stepfather, a crime which will certainly be punished by the paraguayan judicial system, but a second crime, the crime committed by the state itself, insofar as it has an excessively strict legislation which prevents recourse to abortion in a situation of this nature. this is not the time nor the place to have a thorough debate on the abortion issue. it is a question of another nature. we are talking about humanitarian abortion, in an absolutely limiting circumstance, to safeguard the psychological and physical integrity of a ten-year-old child, and this parliament cannot be insensitive to a situation of this nature.
madam president, we are voting today on a joint resolution on the violation of human rights in paraguay. this resolution was triggered by an incident which occurred a few months ago and which was reported in the media about a ten-year-old paraguayan girl who was sexually abused by a family member, to whom the paraguayan government did not give any medical or legal assistance, nor the possibility of exercising the right to therapeutic or ethical abortion. the truth is that in this part of the world, these cases are recurrent and tend to increase. the protection of victims and, in this case, of minors is a matter that is not properly provided for in paraguayan legislation and, in situations of termination of pregnancy caused by rape, the paraguayan state shows no openness in defending the physical and psychological integrity of victims of this type of violence. the truth is that situations like this bring serious health problems and economic exclusion to adolescents. it understands that no argument can be invoked to override the human condition of a child and a woman. it called on the paraguayan government to be diligent in protecting the interests of its citizens, and in particular those who are most vulnerable, such as minors who are victims of sexual abuse. thank you and happy birthday, madam president.
‒ the black sea is an important external border of the union, as it forms the eastern border of romania and bulgaria. but around this sea are also turkey, georgia (whose abkhazia region has been experiencing a growing russian military presence), russia and ukraine, including the crimean peninsula - recently annexed by russia, brutally challenging the international order. in the context of relations with russia, the strategic military situation of this region is obviously crucial. while it is true that relations between the russian federation and the eu and its member states should seek peaceful solutions and not conflict, the eu must stand firm, in conjunction with nato, and ensure security in terms of energy, maritime, border and, not least, the people of this region.
‒ the situation in the countries surrounding russia today should be given special attention because of the problems it may cause for the rest of europe. the existence of a blacklist banning european politicians from entering russian territory is an arbitrary measure and a counterproductive act that is detrimental to the already limited channels of communication between the eu and russia. in the current scenario, the eu must critically reassess its relations with russia, which have been severely damaged by the illegal annexation of crimea. the eu should support russian citizens fighting for democracy and the rule of law in the country, such as human rights defenders, bloggers, independent media, academics and ngos.
‒ the european union, through its european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, has been present in supporting development and growth in countries such as armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. we must therefore strongly condemn the illegal and illegitimate annexation of crimea, which has caused enormous instability in the black sea basin. we cannot accept, once again, what happened in 2008 in georgia, in particular in the regions of abkhazia and ossetia. the union should therefore support ukraine and recognise the illegal annexation of crimea and work together with nato partners and the eastern partnership countries from here. i believe that the minsk ceasefire should be used to find a solution to the destabilization of eastern ukraine. however, if russia does not comply with the agreement, the union must rethink economic sanctions and, together with nato, find ways of strengthening the capacity of the threatened countries.
‒ the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol by russia has triggered a significant change in the strategic landscape and balance of the black sea military basin and adjacent areas. russia's military actions, which resulted in the illegal and illegitimate annexation of crimea, are subordinated to an attack plan aimed at strengthening strategic and tactical advantages in order to ensure the control and exploitation of oil and gas transportation in the black sea. moreover, by occupying the entire peninsula, russia also gained a launching pad to the west (the balkans, transnistria and the mouth of the danube) and to the south (the eastern mediterranean). the eu is called upon to consider its strategic interests, identify new defence solutions and rethink its common security policy (which necessarily includes energy policy). i voted in favour.
in the light of the recent developments in the situation in ukraine, the european union has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the country is not further worsened.
parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the russian authorities. in this sense, i am in favour of adopting this resolution which reaffirms the need for firm and united positions (with 'one voice') both at eu and nato level, in respect of the international legal framework, and stresses the importance of the union strengthening its energy independence and maritime/border security. the continued violations of human rights in the occupied areas (and in russia itself) including intimidation and the increase in cases of enforced disappearances, censorship of freedom of expression and persecution of minorities, also deserve strong condemnation. i also call for all means at our disposal to be used to investigate and prosecute war crimes committed in these regions (and human rights abuses), and i look forward to the timely intervention of the international community, including the hague tribunal, in the investigation of any crimes that may have occurred.
‒ the integrity of sports organisations is important, as both professional and amateur sport play a key role in promoting peace, respect for human rights and solidarity worldwide, bringing health and economic benefits to society and being essential in drawing attention to core cultural and educational values as well as promoting social inclusion. unfortunately, for several years fifa has operated as an unreputable, opaque and blatantly corrupt organisation and the recent arrests confirm that fraud and corruption in fifa is systematic. i support this resolution because i believe that the commission and the member states must take action to combat any evidence of corruption by fifa officials or national football federations on eu territory. police cooperation in europe should also be strengthened through the setting up of joint investigation teams and greater cooperation between judicial authorities. i also consider it essential that all countries applying to host major sporting events respect international fundamental rights standards in all activities relating to the organisation and conduct of the event.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the award of the 2018 and 2022 world cups should be invalidated if evidence emerges that the award resulted from corrupt activities and the issue of leadership should be resolved, at the earliest, with an interim president. the investigation initiated by the swiss and us authorities is of the utmost importance in understanding the scope of this whole case. i agree that the awarding of the 2018 and 2022 world cups will be invalidated if evidence emerges that the awarding of the 2018 and 2022 world cups resulted from corrupt activities, as well as the removal of all officials involved in irregularities. fifa shall adopt strict ethical standards and a code of conduct for its senior staff and executive committee, which shall be monitored by an independent supervisory body. police cooperation in europe should be strengthened through the setting up of joint investigation teams and greater cooperation between judicial authorities.
in writing. ‒ corruption must be fought wherever it is found. in the last few days, we have been shown how corrupt fifa and the sports bodies have been over the years. increased transparency and accountability are essential, in particular as regards the decision-making process and the remuneration of the management and senior management of these bodies. a serious investigation is needed into the awarding procedures for the world cups, both in the past, such as those held in france or south africa, and in the near future, such as those in russia or qatar, where all the allegations of human rights violations, in particular the use of slave labour for the construction of infrastructure, cannot be ignored.
‒ fifa has been suspected of a number of economic and financial irregularities in relation to the designation of the countries organising the football world championships. this mistrust has existed for a number of years and has recently increased due to the awarding of the world cup to russia (2018) and qatar (2022). i am voting in favour of this resolution which calls for greater transparency in the leadership of world football, the elimination of all suspicion of corruption and the adoption of clearer decision-making processes. i also welcome the fact that there is a new leadership in world football, with new players who are giving the sport credibility on an international scale.
‒ the integrity of sports organisations is of vital importance to the eu and its citizens, given the key role that professional and amateur sport play in promoting peace, respect for human rights and social values. in parallel, sport provides economic and public health benefits, with the added advantage of social inclusion and the enhancement of educational and cultural values facilitated by its peculiarly aggregative character. to our dismay, the latest revelations of corruption at the highest level of fifa undermine the confidence of citizens and fans in sports institutions and threaten the integrity of sport as a whole. considering that fifa has operated for many years as a notoriously opaque, corrupt and uncensored organisation, and considering further that the recent arrests attest to the systematic, widespread and persistent nature of cases of fraud and corruption within fifa, the european parliament takes note in the present position of the rapporteur, which i subscribe to, of the outrage at fifa's practices and the support given to the campaign for the establishment of a fifa reform commission, which is non-governmental, independent and supervised by an international authority.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament calls for a strong commitment from the international federation of association football (fifa), as well as from other sports organisations, to combat corruption and to implement a code of conduct and a zero-tolerance policy against corruption in sport. without transparency and good governance by sports organisations we are violating the fundamental values and principles of sport.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution follows the recent revelations of high-level corruption at fifa, following the arrest of 14 fifa officials, including its vice-president, by the swiss authorities in zurich on 27 may. the corruption that is rampant within fifa, which not only undermines the credibility of competitive sport but above all the integrity of world football, and has a devastating impact from the professional football ranks at the top of the pyramid to the amateur clubs at the bottom, deserves total condemnation. in this respect, it is essential to implement structural reforms capable of guaranteeing the transparency, rigour and sense of responsibility that a federation of this kind must possess, which must be guided by strict ethical standards and zero tolerance in matters of corruption, favours or convenient omissions. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, as i consider it absolutely essential that the european institutions and the member states take all the measures in their power to combat any and all evidence of corruption in this case, but also in sport in general.
the rapporteur. i would like to start by congratulating the commission and in particular its president, jean-claude juncker, on coming forward with this legislative initiative. i would also like to congratulate the competent action of the council presidency, the lithuanian presidency, which has made it possible for us to arrive at a good result, and of course to thank all the members, all the rapporteurs, all the shadow rapporteurs, all the officials, not only the officials of the political groups but also the officials of the secretariats of the committee on budgets and the economic affairs committee, who have proved that we have a great deal of competence in this house. a special word for the co-rapporteur udo bullmann: we both had hours and hours of meetings, hours and hours of meetings, over 200 hours of work, but we can say that it was worth it. it was worth it because we have a fund that will enable growth and jobs. it was worth it because this is a new fund, an innovative fund, a fund that is also provocative and challenging, a fund that does not allocate by regions or by themes. and so, each one of us will have to do our job, each one of us will have to look and the stakeholders will have to do it, the beneficiaries, to take advantage of this fund. a fund that says something like this: i am here to support viable projects that the current funds, the current programmes, the financial markets do not support at the moment, and in this sense this additional character, this complementarity, is extremely important. a fund which will therefore, with its 315 billion euros, 240 billion for investment, 75 billion euros for companies and, in particular, for small and mediumsized enterprises, help growth, help the competitiveness of our economy. it is also a fund which proves that it is not the politicians who create jobs, but that they must do everything to create the conditions for job creation. a fund also open to research, to broadband, to energy efficiency, but also to education, to health, to tourism, to infrastructure. a fund which will enable a stronger recovery in the european union. we also want the fund to continue and therefore the action we have taken so that if it goes well it will continue, but if it does not go as well as it has, the commission will come up with a new proposal so that it can continue and, obviously, if it is a disaster, it would make no sense for it to continue. but it's not going to be a disaster. we also lent transparency to the decision, we gave democratic legitimacy to this fund and we were able to reduce the impact it had on two important programmes in terms of funding. i am referring to horizon 2020 and the connect europe facility, where we have reduced an impact of eur 1 billion on these programmes. but i want to tell the commission that this work will continue and that in each budgetary procedure we will continue to do everything we can to reduce the impact on these funds. and as i said, we're going to try to minimize, to the greatest extent possible, the impact that the guarantee from this fund has on these two programs. a fund which is also a fund which shows that sharing is important and which is based on a guarantee from the european union, a common guarantee, a guarantee also from the member states, a guarantee from the eib. i am confident that we all want growth, we all want jobs and that is why we will vote for this fund. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr manuel fernandes, who did an excellent job, thanked the commission for this fund. the role of parliament was decisive. without parliament, this fund would not be on the commission's programme. you should recognize him. secondly, you said there are no priorities for either sites or projects. the member is portuguese. you lost your cohesion? do you intend to drop cohesion?
the rapporteur, replying in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i note that my colleague, carlos zorrinho, has not read the regulation, because territorial cohesion is in the commitment, it is in the text of the regulation, it is in the recitals. it has an eligibility criterion, and you will know by now that i myself proposed this eligibility criterion in relation to territorial cohesion, and that is an important criterion. but what i have said is that cohesion policy, cohesion policy, has another objective, and this fund has no geographical allocations or thematic allocations, but it too must contribute to improving territorial cohesion in europe. and it is clear that parliament has played an important role in the before and after, as i have stressed.
mr president, it is really a collective achievement to launch these funds for strategic investments at such short notice, but we all know this is just the beginning of a very long process to relaunch growth and investment and job creation in europe. i would like to put a specific question to vice—president katainen on job creation. my question is: how do you now intend to use this investment plan to foster job creation? i would like to share with you my own thoughts about this. in order to use the plan to foster job creation, we need, first of all, to use the best of these investment guidelines to put a strong focus on the creation of high-quality jobs. the criteria for selecting the projects should be to create a strong path to job creation. the advisory hub should encourage job-rich projects. investment platforms can play a central role if they become engines for innovation, skills and job creation. that is why it is very important that all member states and all regions have real opportunities to participate in such investment platforms. i notice your final declaration on how to make a correct interpretation of one-off measures, so i would like to have your thoughts on this.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to welcome this debate, thank vice-president cattani and vice-president georgieva, and say that job creation cannot be conditioned by ideological prejudices or a bad agenda against european union integration. in creating jobs, investment is positive whether it is public or private, and that is not the way - whether it is public or private - to measure good or bad investment. with this plan, which we have here and which will be adopted, there is another positive point to be mentioned, namely the advisory platform which has been approved. a consulting platform to help structure projects, a consulting platform that will be free for public entities and where small and medium-sized enterprises will only pay one-third of the costs. a platform that will help make this plan work, and now, hands on deck for this plan. we also have a portal, a portal that will give visibility to investments. there are also platforms: they can be regional, they can be national, they can be thematic, where third countries can also be present, using the guarantee; and they can contribute to the energy union, they can also contribute, for example, to the digital union. this is a fund that believes in private enterprise, that believes in small and medium-sized enterprises. it is also a trust-building fund, which will make the european union more competitive and, as has already been said here, is additional and complementary. i hope that it will be a success so that it can continue from the beginning and that another fund like this can then follow.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is the only major bloc that, seven years after the 2008 crisis, has not yet managed to emerge from it. when it leaves, it will have deep scars: unemployment has doubled, skilled young people from less competitive regions have emigrated and investment has fallen to historic lows. the conditions for us to grow up together have never been more difficult. we must be aware that the greater the divergences, the less viable the single currency will be. that is why the juncker commission's choice to finally apply the flexibility contained in the stability and growth pact makes perfect sense. the rules governing strategic investment and structural reforms, and the way in which they are reconciled with the business cycle, are purely a matter of common sense. the berès report touches on some of these aspects, but it is important to remember here that the single currency will not survive unless we review the concept of structural reforms and select those which promote genuine convergence of competitiveness. it will not survive unless we create minimum social rights at european level; unless we stabilise the markets by fulfilling the promise to create a common deposit guarantee up to eur 100 000 in the banking union; unless we bring the troika, the european stability mechanism and the budgetary treaty under the community method; unless we find a common solution to the problem of sovereign debts; unless we create a european instrument capable of reviving crisis economies without triggering a recession; unless we put an end to the practice whereby countries steal taxpayers' money from each other while at the same time punishing each other when their budgets are not balanced. there is an agenda under way, the berès report is only one step, an important step but one step, but the fundamental reforms which are partly covered in the five presidents' report must, in combination with the berès report, be carried out with the utmost urgency if we are to really save the european project.
mr president, we had a simple but important task here: the task of reviewing the economic governance package. what's the point? to take parliament's position to the governments and even that parliament has failed. despite all the efforts of the rapporteur, the ppe has boycotted, blackmailed, gambled, postponed as many times as it could, and we now have a situation where the socialists have given in at the last minute. what we have here today is nothing new. in fact, it is the backroom deals, far from democratic control, that have thrown away all the work we have done over many months. what we have here today is, unfortunately, something we know very well. it is the great coalition of the right and the socialists, the same coalition that governs europe with the results we know, the same coalition that governs germany, the same coalition that governed greece until total disaster. but in this case the problem is not only the unacceptable proposals of the grand coalition, but also that they have rendered the role of parliament useless and the document we are voting on today obsolete. this resolution will be of no use at all and the absurdity is such that a document drawn up by five presidents will have more weight than a document drawn up by the direct representatives of 500 million citizens. shame is the right word. this is a disgrace and it is, above all, a great disrespect for those who elected you.
mr president, we are on the eve of a very important european council where the five presidents’ report will be presented, and we have started discussion on economic and monetary union reform. that is why we need to adopt the berès report today, because this is a very valuable contribution to this discussion, which is crucial in order for us to address a central problem of the european union and of the eurozone. the fact of the matter is that the eurozone is working not as a process of convergence, but rather as a process of divergence, and this is recognised by the five presidents’ report. and if you want to overcome this – because this is undermining the political support for european integration – we need to come up with clear proposals. first of all, yes, we need a reform agenda, but a reform agenda turned to the future, building on a competitive turn to the future, and supporting advanced social standards; and yes, we need to have a powerful investment initiative. we now have efsi, but we need to build a fiscal capacity supporting member states in what they can no longer do, because they are committed to a common fiscal discipline. more than that, we need a proper economic coordination of our policies based on the fiscal stance and reducing the macroeconomic imbalances we have, which are undermining the total growth we can achieve as a continent. finally, we need to bring more democracy to all these decisions and to give a stronger role to the european parliament. this is a clear agenda for reforming and improving the economic governance of the european union, and i believe this is a strong reason why we need to support pervenche berès’s report today.
mr president, my dear colleague! in the original story, it wasn't the wolf, it was the weather, the bad weather. mr president, first, i wanted to make a political observation. i've seen several people here throughout the afternoon talking about how a left hand gave way to a right hand. well, it seems that these deputies forget that these are people who represent the electors and, therefore, have the right to speak out and to influence their electors. the text we have reached is therefore the result of a compromise between centre-left and centre-right voters. the only thing missing was that the centre-left and left electorates had more rights than the centre-right electorates, who, still on top, gave more votes to the centre-right than to the centre-left and left. this is the first thing that's going to be said. therefore, the product of this parliament is the product of the will of the electorate. secondly, i think that this report, as it emerges after the negotiation, makes no good sense, which is the sense that we have here. there is a crisis of confidence between the states and public opinion. it is necessary to strengthen the state and the trust. that's what you want to do. we want to go further, we want to deepen integration, we want to go much further (i have no doubt about that), but for this we have to trust each other and be able to bring each country into convergence with the others so that there are no mistrust and so that we can create a true political union as the final stage of our project.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the flexibility which the european commission has been using in implementing the stability and growth pact does not constitute, contrary to what many would have us believe, a disguised change in the rules of economic governance. on the contrary, this flexibility has long been enshrined in the rules, with the difference that the previous commission, for ideological reasons, i think, never wanted to apply it. that is why the european socialists fully support this decision of the commission which makes it possible to adapt the pact to the specific conditions of each country, avoiding the pro-cyclical policies which have contributed greatly to the economic and social disaster in europe in recent years. the berès report, which we have just discussed and are preparing to vote on, confirms this greater transparency and clarity in the application of the current rules, particularly in terms of specifying and clarifying the scope of the investment clause and in the assessment of structural reforms. in this context and with a view to increasing transparency, the socialist group would like the commission to clarify a number of points. first, what methodology does the commission use to assess, when it analyses the budgetary situation of the member states, the high put gap, the structural budget balance and the estimated potential growth of gdp? secondly, in applying the stability pact, what methodology does the european commission use to calculate the costs and added value of structural reforms? thirdly, in the application of the stability pact as well, and moreover, how does the european commission estimate the impact of its recommendations on the process of convergence between member states? i appreciate the answers.
the stability and growth pact, the famous sgp, was not only absolutely devastating for the economy and the well-being of the citizens, it had to be decided and imposed in an absolutely opaque, non-transparent and non-democratic way. where the pec was applied, what we saw was debt going up. that was the general rule. i would therefore ask the commission whether they have learned any lessons or whether, once again, they will invent arguments against the facts. secondly, is the commission prepared to change the focus, to recognise that austerity has completely failed and to stop using debt as an excuse, ignoring that in some cases, even where adjustment programmes have been implemented, such as in ireland, for example, it was not public debt but private debt that was the cause of the problem? in the review of the jep, will the commission be available to start monitoring surpluses as well? i must confess that i am absolutely shocked by the commission's lack of rigor in applying the rules of the stability and growth pact itself against excessive surpluses when it then presents itself as being very rigorous in monitoring and punishing excessive deficits. will the commission continue to have a double standard, to turn a blind eye to rich countries that violate the jcpoa and to pursue the punishing of countries in difficulty, or will it finally withdraw from the jcpoa the sanctions which are absolutely unacceptable? and the proof is that the countries with surpluses in violation of the sgp never accepted these sanctions. if sanctions weren't stupid, the surplus countries would accept them. so what i want to know is whether the commission is also willing to finally consider, as any person in his right mind would, that investment is not the same as expenditure and that countries, like any company, cannot be accounted for in the same way and therefore not included in the deficit figures.
in writing. the current crisis, almost two decades after the creation of the single currency, should prompt serious and dispassionate reflection on the process of creating economic and monetary union, the budgetary treaty and the stability pact. the euro was created by the big bankers to serve their interests and to ensure their domination over national states and the sovereignty of peoples. the stability pact and economic governance are intended to strengthen this area, preventing the emergence of any alternative development project. the 2007 financial crisis was thus used to deepen economic governance, i.e. to further reinforce the policy measures that are intended to impose on governments a single path, which is the path of maximising the profits of banks at the expense of citizens. the present reality shows that breaking the shackles of the euro, the budgetary treaty and economic governance is the first step towards the liberation of the peoples and their self-determination in choosing their own development project.
madam president, i want to support this request made by the liberal group, not only because, as has been said, the five presidents' report makes this report absolutely obsolete (it was to give parliament's response to the governments and it does not arrive in time, the five presidents arrived first), but above all because of a political question, because the inability to manage the greek problem is the proven proof that we need to thoroughly revise the framework of economic governance. there are areas which are not in the five presidents' report and which should be in this parliament's report on economic governance, which have to do with debt management or the stability mechanism. so let us do a serious job, let us respect the 500 million citizens we represent in this house and let us do a thorough job of reviewing the economic governance package.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of personal data. it is another step, still insufficient, but in the right direction in relation to the luxleaks scandal, in response to the luxleaks scandal. it is not acceptable that some countries which violently control the budgets of others, imposing brutal spending cuts on them, should be the same ones which steal their tax revenues every day through aggressive and unfair practices. this situation is unfair, it is politically unsustainable. the socialist group has been calling for years for the establishment of the ccctb, that is to say, a common basis for the calculation of consolidated and compulsory collectable tax for all companies in the union. without this common basis, tax rates cannot be compared. we regret that the 'consolidation' c has apparently been left out of the proposals for the time being, because without certainty about transfer prices the fight against the erosion of the tax bases is weakened. we also regret that the obligation to report country by country on the accounts of companies, the so-called country by country reporting, is being delayed pending a feasibility study which was not at all necessary. i ask myself: what can we do as representatives of citizens overwhelmed by the brutal burden of taxation to make europe move faster on an agenda of fiscal justice, where competition is between companies and not between states? i commend the commission for this proposal, for the work it is doing, but can you assure me, commissioner marianne thyssen, that following the political commitment of mr juncker, the whole college of commissioners, and not just a few commissioners, will be united in a convergent, coherent and ambitious position, capable of moving the council of ministers, which is usually blocked by the rule of unanimity, with parliament? as far as the taxe committee is concerned, i can assure you that the spirit that unites us is one of commitment, demand and loyal cooperation with an ambitious commission agenda on taxation. the citizens are asking us to do it.
madam president, tax fraud and tax evasion are one of the most visible forms of injustice in the european union. whether it's legal or illegal, it's immoral and, as i said, unfair. we know that in every country there are situations like this. in the case of portugal, 19 of the 20 companies classified in the psi 20 on the portuguese stock exchange pay their taxes in the netherlands and they do so without regret, because one of these multinationals even has as its slogan 'it is good to pay so little'. i don't know if it's irony or cynicism, but that's the slogan. so with the crisis we see even more unequal distribution and a greater burden, shifting the burden of taxation to the side of those who work and relieving the big multinationals. i think the commission's proposal is pointing in the right direction, but it still has many holes. i do not fail to stress the need for country-by-country reporting, but i also do not fail to mention that taxes must be paid where profits are made, because there are billions of euros lost in the public accounts every year. the commission's proposal is based on good principles, but it has many holes, and as regards luxleaks, i would even say that it is not enough for caesar's wife to be honest, she must look like: the commission must leave this place above suspicion.
madam president, tax evasion and avoidance are increasing as a direct result of the process of liberalization of the economies of globalisation. to this extent, tax fraud and evasion are the direct descendants of this process of european integration, based on the free movement of capital and the total supremacy of the large economic and financial groups. in the face of public outrage, the commission feels obliged to take action. the commission is proposing more of the same: a harmonised tax base, the drawing up of a list of tax havens and vague principles to avoid the shifting of profits to tax havens. what this case tells us is that tax evasion with the complicity of governments is a widespread practice within the european union and not outside. it is therefore the governments of most of the countries of the european union, whose parties are present here in this house, that are largely responsible for this scandal. we, on the other hand, are under no illusions. the way out is the end of the supremacy of economic power over political power. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i am concerned precisely because the agreements you are mentioning do not guarantee any scrutiny by the people and the members themselves. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken any action on the matter. the problem, as commissioner juncker knows very well, is that there are multinationals that control governments and parties. and that's really the problem.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's initiative to pursue the objective of fairer and more effective taxation of eu companies. the presentation of this action plan was long overdue but became urgent after the luxleaks scandal. i agree with the fundamental principle that all companies should pay their fair share of taxes where they actually carry out economic activity and where they make their profits. i reiterate my conviction that in the future there must be greater tax harmonization to put an end to the inequality between states, which undermines healthy competition in the internal market, because goods produced in european countries where there is a higher tax burden do not compete on equal terms with those where there are lower rates.
the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of taxation for companies, which will be introduced in the next few months. this is an important step, which parliament supports, but it falls far short of what citizens expect and what is really needed to put an end to fiscal dumping in the eu. there must be a shift in policy and fiscal concertation between member states, with an emphasis on transparency. first, we need to know who pays how much and where. we found that countries that wanted to control the budget balances of countries under financial bailout by imposing harsh doses of punitive austerity on their citizens are some of the same countries that for years struggled to capture their tax revenues. almost all the largest companies in portugal have their holding company in the netherlands. this is a profoundly unjust, inexplicable and politically untenable reality for those who, like myself, defend and believe in the european project. commissioner, you have our support to overcome the resistance of the member states and to carry out a fundamental reform of business taxation in the eu.
mr president, the conference of the parties will discuss in paris in december ways of combating and mitigating the effects of climate change. we all want effective decisions to be taken there. on a global scale, the barometer for climate change is the arctic ocean. this ocean acts like a canary in the coal mine applied to planet earth. the european union should therefore urgently be granted observer status in the arctic council and it is crucial that the european parliament's 2014 resolution on the european union arctic strategy is followed. the resolution stresses the importance of ecosystem-based management and the identification of marine areas of particular ecological and biological significance, as recently recognised and identified under the convention on biological diversity. the next step in its recognition is now awaited and this should be taken at the level of the conferences of the parties.
‒ sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of having, on 4 march 2010, and using threats of violence, illegally broken into the premises of the public television channel ert-3, interrupting the noon news to read a statement. this alleged infringement is not directly related to the position of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, but rather related to an action by the greek trade union pame. at the time of the facts, sotirios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament and the action does not concern any opinion or vote expressed in the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament. i therefore agree to the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ i am in favour of the waiver of the immunity claim as approved by the competent committee in the european parliament. the infringement in question dates back to 2010 and he is not yet a member of the european parliament. the alleged infringement is therefore not linked to the activity of a member of the european parliament, in accordance with the rules of procedure and the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december 2014, the prosecutor general of the supreme court of justice of greece requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotorios zarianopoulos in the context of the investigation of an alleged infringement case related to the fact that the said member of the european parliament had illegally broken into the premises of the public television channel ert-3, using threats of violence, and interrupted the midday news to read a statement. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, article 8 of the protocol does not apply in this case, since the alleged infringement is not related to the office of member of the european parliament but is related to an action brought by the greek trade union pame, and sotorios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the events. in these terms and on the basis of the report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of sotorios zarianopoulos.
‒ mr sotirios zarianopoulos (mp, communist party of greece) is accused of illegally breaking into the premises of the public television channel ert-3 on 4 march 2010 and using threats of violence, interrupting the midday news to read a statement. at the time, zarianopoulos was a trade union leader and the act of which he is accused in greece is related to an action by the greek trade union pame. sotirios zarianopoulos argues that his immunity should not be waived as he has not committed any violent act. comm juri watched the video with the news footage and there's no sign of violence. on the other hand, the journalists testified that no act of violence was perpetrated against them. he considers this to be political persecution. the committee also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization.
‒ according to the report under consideration, mr sotirios zarianopoulos, a member of the communist party of greece, is accused of illegally breaking into the premises of the public television channel ert-3 on 4 march 2010, interrupting the midday news to read a statement. at the time, zarianopoulos was a trade union leader and the act of which he is accused in greece is related to an action by the greek trade union pame. it is clear that the persecution of zarianopoulos is openly political and an attack on trade union activity in greece, threatening the freedom of trade unionists in the country. we voted against the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ udo voigt is accused of incitement to hatred and collective insult in connection with a publication, released at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup by the national democratic party, for which he was responsible as party chairman. udo voigt claims that the length of the proceedings, which began in 2006, demonstrates the intention to obstruct his parliamentary work. however, there is no link between the charges and the duties performed by udo voigt as a member of the european parliament, nor are the alleged acts related to opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the exercise of his duties. so i agree with the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ after the committee responsible had assessed the request for waiver of immunity, i voted in favour of this report. the alleged acts committed are not related to opinions or votes expressed in his capacity as a member of the european parliament.
‒ on 9 february 2015, the presiding judge of the kaammergericht (court of appeal) in berlin requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt in a legal action in which the alleged member of the european parliament is accused of incitement to hatred and insult because of a publication, circulated at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup by the national democratic party of germany, of which he was then president. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, article 8 of the protocol does not apply in this case, since there is no connection between the charges and the duties performed by mr udo voigt as a member of parliament, but rather with his position as president of the german national democratic party. in these terms, and on the basis of the juri report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of udo voigt.
‒ during the 2006 fifa world cup, the party newspaper of the target published a calendar with the party logo, with the following title - "lets go the whites", which in the context of the time was considered incitement to hatred and collective violence. he later made public statements where he clearly stated that in his opinion only white players should play for the german team. udo voigt was the chairman of his party at the time of these events. we voted for the lifting of parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr udo voigt, member of parliament for the far-right national democratic party of germany. during the 2006 fifa world cup, his party newspaper published a calendar with the party logo and the following headline - "lets go the whites", considered incitement to hatred and mass violence. he later made public statements, arguing that only white players should play for the german team. udo voigt was the party chairman at the time of these events. we voted to lift parliamentary immunity.
‒ i congratulate mr josé manuel fernandes on his excellent work as rapporteur for the juncker plan. while i have some doubts about the success of this instrument, i agree that we must give priority to policies that stimulate growth and create jobs. i welcome the fact that 75 billion of the total of 315 billion is allocated, as a matter of priority, to projects involving small and mediumsized enterprises. i particularly welcome the fact that, on the proposal of the deputy rapporteur, the following have been enshrined: - increasing investment in the countries most in need - contribution to economic, social and territorial cohesion is a selection criterion;- valorising the merits of projects, which cannot be undermined by the difficult economic situation of their member state;- supporting investors by setting up an investment advice platform;- ensuring a transparent process - approvals will be public and disapproval notified to the european parliament. i sincerely hope that this plan will contribute to portugal's economic recovery and to job creation.
‒ i welcome the agreement, which will contribute to growth and job creation in europe. we have managed to reduce overall cuts in horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility by eur 1 billion. the 'juncker plan' aims to mobilise €315 billion of public and private investment over the next three years. we will have 240 billion for investment and 75 billion for enterprises, particularly small and mediumsized enterprises. this fund represents yet another opportunity that can be missed. it is additional, complementary, allowing financing that which the current funds and the market do not support or finance. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the cuts in the two community programmes are now €2.8 billion for horizon 2020 (the eu's research and innovation programme) and €2.2 billion for the connecting europe facility (investments to improve europe's transport, energy and digital technology networks).
‒ the investment plan presented by jean-claude juncker aims to create a new european fund for strategic investments, which will be managed by the european investment bank. the european commission is thus seeking to mobilise eur 16 billion from the european budget to mobilise a total investment of eur 315 billion. i am voting in favour of this report on the european fund for strategic investments because i believe that this could be the necessary step to boost economic growth by between eur 330 and 410 billion and create some 1.3 million jobs. i believe that it is time for the european union to make private individuals aware of the need to make strategic investments in areas which are essential for improving energy, transport and telecommunications links.
the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the european union. in this regard, and without prejudice to the indispensable structural reforms ensuring the financial and social sustainability of the union states, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), reinforced by the financial contributions of the member states, should be a complement to the competitiveness and investment strategy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi, in particular through the use of the european social fund, the european regional development fund and the european regional development fund. in the light of the above, and taking into account the indispensability and urgency of the project, i voted in favour of the provisions establishing the efsi as a distinct, identifiable and transparent mechanism with specificity and instruments of its own.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european fund for strategic investments - the so-called juncker plan, congratulating the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done in recent months, with a special greeting to my colleague from the national delegation, josé manuel fernandes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the first is that this new fund should be complementary and additional to the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), as advocated in this report and in other documents approved by the european parliament, and yet that of the total of 315 billion provided for in the plan, 75 billion should be allocated, preferably, to projects geared to small and mediumsized enterprises.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. despite the vote in favour, i still have doubts about the financial leverage envisaged and i regret that this fund does not provide for an explicit positive discrimination in favour of convergence, in particular for the promotion of investment in the countries most affected by the crisis, among which is portugal.
in writing. ‒ this fund is a key commitment of the european commission. it is not the desirable public investment plan that would be required. it is first and foremost a financial engineering exercise with dubious results. the european union has a long tradition of cooperation with the developing countries. it gives no guarantee of a fair geographical distribution of the investment. it is incomprehensible to the average citizen that the ecb has 60 billion euros to spend every month to buy debt securities and other assets, but at the same time there is no capacity of the eu to finance a real public investment programme capable of reviving economic growth.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 provides that 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission (ec). i agree with the proposal to mobilise eur 630 000 to cover technical assistance costs to the european commission. the objective is to finance monitoring and information in order to create a knowledge base/interface for applications and to advise member states on the usefulness, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. this funding will contribute to the simplification of the application processes, which will allow better access to relevant data, knowledge sharing and information, leading to a more efficient future implementation of this fund.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to obtain reimbursement of their costs from the eu when their applications are approved. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 630 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure. the purpose of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information in order to create a knowledge base/interface for applications and to advise member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i am voting in favour of this report which stresses the importance of networking and the exchange of information on the egf, particularly in relation to the provisions of the new egf regulation, thus supporting the financing of the egf contact group of experts and the networking seminars on the implementation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 630 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure. the purpose of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information in order to create a knowledge base/interface for applications and to advise member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure. since the proposed amount falls within that limit, i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf in the terms referred to above.
in writing. ‒ in view of the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i am in favour of the proposal to mobilise eur 630 000 to cover the technical assistance expenditure of the european commission, in accordance with the requirements laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. this will, inter alia, make it possible to finance the creation of a database for the provision of advice and information to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. this instrument will simplify the application procedures and thus contribute to a better implementation of the fund.
‒ this report supports the measures proposed by the european commission for the financing of technical assistance. in particular, it endorses the mobilisation of eur 811 825 in 2015, as its regulation provides for up to 0,5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf, which in 2015 is eur 150 million, to finance the preparation, monitoring, data collection and creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support, information and communication activities, as well as audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the regulation. we agree to the proposal. however, we reiterate our criticism of the fund, as it is necessary to ensure measures to prevent unemployment, in particular the reversal of the neoliberal course of eu policies leading to such outcomes. the destruction of jobs, the absence of work, is inherent in the capitalist system and its structural crisis, which leads every day to the closure and relocation of enterprises.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund makes it possible to provide financial support to workers made redundant as a result of the so-called effects of structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis, which is necessary but not always sufficient in the face of job loss. this report agrees with the measures proposed by the european commission for the financing of technical assistance, in particular as regards the mobilisation of eur 811 825 in 2015, as its regulation provides for up to 0,5% of the maximum annual amount of the egf, which in 2015 is eur 150 million, to finance the preparation, monitoring, data collection and creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support, information and communication activities, as well as audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the regulation. however, we reiterate our criticism of the fund, as it is necessary to ensure measures to prevent unemployment, in particular the reversal of the neoliberal course of eu policies leading to such outcomes. the destruction of jobs, the absence of work, is inherent in the capitalist system and its structural crisis, which leads every day to the closure and relocation of enterprises.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposal to the council. recent events, both from the point of view of the euro crisis and the pressure of the need to stimulate economic recovery and job creation, have undoubtedly reinforced the timeliness of this debate. the report by the presidents, the commission communication on the analysis of economic governance and the document on flexibility in the application of the sgp rules provide a good basis for reflection, which justifies the ep's opinion. i agree with the rapporteur that we must think about the economic governance of a deeper emu in the post-crisis period, and that this reflection should focus not only on the results but also on combating the recognized democratic deficit that is felt today. i recognise that the complexity of economic governance is the enemy of the desirable transparency and that a common economic assessment and diagnosis is urgently needed in an area where the same currency is shared.
‒ the evaluation of the implementation of the six-pack and two-pack legislative packages is still partial at this stage and cannot be isolated from the european semester, the tfeu and the budgetary pact. i also believe that the prevention of excessive deficits and debt levels, as well as of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, is central to the european economic governance system. i am voting in favour of this report on economic governance, which aims to underline the importance of the fact that the budgetary rules should be interpreted in such a way as to close the investment gap in the european union and facilitate the implementation of growth-friendly, sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the recent economic and financial crisis has required measures such as the banking union, the esm, the six-pack and two-pack, the tecg and the european semester. this report aims to assess the effectiveness of this economic governance framework, to take stock of its implementation and to identify challenges and prospects for future developments. in this regard, it advocates a holistic approach, based on fiscal sustainability, to growth-enhancing structural reforms and investment strengthening, supports the three-pillar strategy (growth-enhancing investment, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms) presented in the 2015 annual growth survey, and welcomes the recently published commission interpretative communication on flexibility. the commission also proposes that the european semester be simplified and strengthened, the procedure for macroeconomic imbalances be more effectively applied, banking union be completed, a budgetary capacity for the euro area be created, the emu and the tecg be integrated into the eu legal framework and democratic accountability mechanisms be strengthened at both european and national level. i voted in favour.
‒ this report draws attention to the review of the current economic governance framework, presents a diagnosis of the situation and outlines the main challenges for the future. in view of the current financial crisis scenario in the euro area, it is of particular importance to improve the current economic governance framework with a view to ensuring better fiscal stability, greater economic convergence in the euro area and an equivalent treatment of the different economic and budgetary situations of the member states. i also agree with the rapporteur's position on the need for simplification and transparency of processes for good economic governance, better application of flexibility within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact and greater rationalisation and strengthening of the european semester, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the berès report on the 'review of the economic governance framework: assessment and challenges', because it is essential that the european parliament has a clear and ambitious position in the debate on the future of economic and monetary union (emu). this report, which, together with the five presidents' paper, should form the basis for the discussion of the reform of emu, incorporates key demands of the socialists, such as support for the flexibility of budgetary rules and investment, a more progressive view of the concept of structural reforms and the requirement to assess their economic and social impact, the strengthening of the prevention of macroeconomic imbalances and a strong defence of convergence between member states, a call for strengthening the democratic control and legitimacy of economic and monetary decisions and the budgetary capacity of the euro area, as well as the affirmation of the social dimension of emu, through the coordination of social policies and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. these proposals are a valuable contribution to a debate which is decisive for europe and for the future of the european citizens.
‒ the current crisis, almost two decades after the creation of the single currency, should prompt serious and dispassionate reflection on the process of creating the economic and monetary union of the budgetary treaty. the euro was created by the big bankers to serve their interests and to ensure their domination over national states and the sovereignty of peoples. economic governance is intended to strengthen this area, preventing the emergence of any alternative development project. the 2007 financial crisis was thus used to deepen economic governance, i.e. to further strengthen the political bailouts, with which it is intended to impose on governments a single path, which is the path of maximizing the profits of banks at the expense of citizens. the present reality shows that the breaking of the shackles of the euro, the budgetary treaty and economic governance represents the first step towards the liberation of the peoples and their self-determination in choosing their own development project.
mr president, the capital markets union is a good example of the contradictions of the current process of capitalist integration in the european union and the lack of solutions to the problems facing european economies. the european union is facing a crisis of enormous gravity: a quarter of europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 24 million people are unemployed, the youth unemployment rate doubled between 2007 and 2014. instead of understanding the causes of the crisis, identifying these root causes, and the need to find public solutions to correct the monumental market failures, it is betting on the same solutions that are at the root of the current crisis. the aim of integrating a capital market will not solve any of the problems of our economies. the belief that it is possible to create a legislative framework with a necessarily complex supervision that will allow us to guarantee a market solution to the problems of the lack of financing of our smes is a dangerous illusion.
mr president, commissioner, the concept of sustainable growth is the key to a globalisation that is regulated, environmentally friendly and people-centred. without growth, we cannot meet the expectations of millions of people - expectations of access to basic goods, employment, individual and community fulfilment. in the deregulated globalization we live in today, we have seen two very worrying trends. on the one hand, inequalities have increased and the severity of poverty hotspots has increased. on the other hand, climate change has been generating catastrophe, famine, desolation, and requires clear, strong responses with concrete results. in this context, the commitment to a circular economy that creates wealth by incorporating waste management into the value chain is a smart and urgent commitment. the path is clear, and also to some extent circular. we must set an example in europe, through international agreements, trade and others, and extend this vision to the global economy, so that when we say we want sustainable growth, it is not just rhetoric, it is a strategy for the future, good for people and good for the planet.
in writing. our planet is generous in resources but finite. and the physical limits of this planet are constantly being challenged by the largely dominant economic and social system on a world scale - capitalism. a system that, we've known since marx uncovered the laws of its development, either grows and accumulates or dies. some may try to paint it green, but what they can't do is change its predatory nature. overcoming capitalism is not in itself a guarantee that we will have a harmonious and sustainable relationship between man and nature, but it is certainly a necessary condition. (perhaps some people confuse the circular economy with something closer to a spiral economy...) as regards waste, its reduction and reuse, and its proper management, what is needed is a strong presence and role of the states in this area, ensuring that the public interest and public services prevail over private business. this is the opposite of what is being done in several countries, such as portugal, where, against the wishes of the people and local authorities, progress has been made towards the privatisation of the waste sector.
the commissioner, mr rapporteur, has been in free fall for over a year and the current measures do not encourage the necessary generational renewal and investment. it is true that we want a competitive sector which is able to orient itself towards exports, but not at the cost of abandoning production. it is necessary to create conditions for the resilience of the dairy activity in the internal market so that prices offset production costs and to promote territorial cohesion. this requires an examination of the behaviour of industry and large retailers in the value chain and the consequences for the prices paid to producers. i also call on the commission to develop instruments for supply management and other instruments to protect against sharp reductions in income. in the short term, i call for a specific approach for less competitive and milk producing regions such as the azores, in particular in identifying market disturbances.
as is recognised, the milk package has failed in its attempt to improve the position of milk producers on the market. even with contracts embedded in organisations, milk producers are unable to negotiate an acceptable price for their product with industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. we believe that supply management and price setting cannot be done merely on the basis of commercial logic. we therefore propose, in conjunction with the national authorities, that the european milk observatory introduce sustainability criteria which take account of production costs and the economic and financial viability of farms.
madam president, commissioner phil hogan, we are again discussing the situation of the milk sector at european level and we all recognise that milk has cyclical crises. however, this is not a normal crisis, because not only is there no prospect of a resolution, but the impact is stronger than expected. we are also all quite sure that the milk market observatory must have crisis management mechanisms and for this it needs to work with constantly updated data, which has not always been the case. this extremely negative situation is true for the whole of europe, but it is particularly evident in the azores, an outermost region of europe, whose milk production accounts for 46% of the regional economy, and whose producers look to us for help, given the distressing situation they are facing. we are talking about a fall of between 9 and 14 cents in the price of a litre of milk, which amounts to a loss estimated, so far, at about 20 million euros. it is a very marked break which it is urgent to mitigate. we are all well aware, commissioner, of the importance of this sector for the azores and of the extremely difficult situation it is facing in the context of the liberalisation of the milk market. i have heard him acknowledge our difficulties, and this house has also acknowledged them by voting in favour of many of my proposals to protect the sector in this report. i ask you to help us in this regard, on behalf of the producers of the azores, so that we can maintain the traditional milk production in our region, with all the social and family, environmental, economic and other benefits. i am counting on your help to implement quickly two of my proposals which were approved in the committee on agriculture - i am finishing - such as creating a mechanism for the azores to transition to the end of quotas and increasing posei.
madam president, another programmatic document has recently been published, signed by the five presidents, five protagonists of this european tragedy, a document which represents another piece in the neoliberal deepening of the european union. this document is baffling. there are 125 million people in the european union today at risk of poverty and social exclusion. that's 24 million people out of work. the youth unemployment rate doubled between 2007 and 2014. but the crisis is not unique to the south. finland, the true mecca of neoliberalism, is sinking with three years of recession and a cumulative 5% drop in gdp. when we should have expected a profound reflection on the model of european integration, we have seen the publication of yet another document which reveals complete blindness and insists on the same prescriptions, killing the sick with the cure. fortunately, events show us that more and more people are beginning to believe that this pattern is not a fatality. another europe is possible, and it must be built by the peoples.
madam president, public-private partnerships are today for many countries both a symptom of this model of capitalist integration and a cause of the present crisis. this model of european integration with a single currency and all the budgetary constraints leaves the states with no scope for public investment, and these become dependent on large companies, not only in the area of major transport infrastructure, but also in fundamental areas such as health, energy or education. in portugal, public-private partnership spending is growing exponentially, unlike all social spending. that is, austerity is only for a few, not for the large economic groups, who increasingly benefit from public revenues. what is needed is to protect europe against the openness that ttip proposes. it is a question of combating, not extending, the validity of an instrument which has become a cancer to our democracy.
i would like to say, madam president, commissioner, that the importance of this report is apparent from the brevity of the late hour, given that there are some 1 600 recognised producer organisations in 23 member states. there are large differences in the rate of organisation between member states, but they reflect different starting points and therefore cannot be justified by the failure of policies. increasing the organisation fee should remain a priority for the fruit and vegetables scheme. the commission report and a study by wageningen university draw attention to the lack of legal certainty, which is a significant obstacle to the development of the op, and i very much welcome the commitment of commissioner hogan to simplify the fruit and vegetable regime. we also call attention to the need for funds to deal with the management of producer organizations. in direct contact with many of their representatives, we have realised that there is a shortage of qualified managers, and the fact that one is a capable producer does not mean that one is a good manager. and so, to provide producer organizations with funds to enable them to hire capable managers is something new that i would bring to this report. there also seems to be a consensus that crisis prevention and management tools are not being used sufficiently, and it is good to see that crises can arise not only because of market conditions but also, less frequently, because of health problems or even for political reasons as in the case of the recent russian embargo. we know that farmers are not at the root of the political crisis with russia, and that is why the european union must continue to support all sectors suffering the consequences of the embargo. in the report i also ask the commission to step up its efforts to protect farmers against the unfair commercial practices of the large retailers, the large supermarkets, who crush and impose prices which often make the activity and, consequently, the association of producers unattractive. and one of the problems that i have been trying to draw a lot of attention to in the european parliament has to do with the need to generationalise agriculture, to ensure that young people see agriculture as an activity that is appealing. and that is why this report pays attention to the fact that only 7.5% of farmers in the european union are under 35 years old. if producer organizations are more effective and more attractive, more young people will certainly find an alternative to their lives there too. i would have a lot to say about this report, madam president, but as i said, the evening is getting long, the audience is not as overwhelming as it was, and we will certainly try to make our point at the vote tomorrow.
madam president, the situation is paradoxical. we have a decline in the area of agricultural land for fruit and vegetable production, but we have a consumption that continues to decline and that is below the who recommendations in some countries. we have, at bottom, a model where the big multinational food companies continue to determine the diet of our young people today. producer organisations are key. we continue to advocate greater flexibility in their recognition, depending on the specific reality of each region. more support is also needed, as is the extension of eligible expenditure, in order to create the conditions for its sustainability. however, it is worth noting that we cannot entertain the illusion that it will be possible with larger op to deal with the serious problems of the sector, such as the large retail sector. in this sense, we continue to have great reservations about the trend towards complete liberalization of the cap, which continues to rely on market solutions that will bring nothing good for our farmers.
i have been referring to the urgency of the follow-up to the regulation on deep-sea fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic since the beginning of the legislature. this document was proposed by the european commission in 2012, was approved in plenary in the previous legislature and since then there has been no progress at the level of the trilogue that should have followed. the latvian presidency is now ending and i note that, once again, there has been no progress. i must therefore stress again the importance of this regulation to reduce the pressure of deep-sea trawls on sensitive cold coral populations. habitats structured by the presence of corals are crucial for the maintenance of marine biodiversity and provide relevant ecological services to fish springs. for the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and the conservation of species and habitats in the north-east atlantic, it is urgent to follow up on this regulation.
in writing. in january this year, laimdota straujuma presented her priorities for the latvian presidency of the council of the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it also underlined the need to continue to support economic growth as well as the implementation of the digital single market. now, at the end of the semester, it's obvious that the balance sheet to be drawn is profoundly scarce. and it is scarce because the same recessionary policies and the same so-called market-oriented solutions persist. we will continue in this way, because what europe needs is investment, and if the private sector is not in a position to do so, then let the member states do so, otherwise we will remain in recession for many more years.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, bernd lange, on his excellent draft report, which deserves the full support of this house. it deserves support because it contains strong demands for a good ttip agreement: safeguarding social and labour rights, protecting the environment, food safety and consumer rights, defending public services, transparency of negotiations and, not least, the end of the private arbitration system, isds. all that is in this resolution. it must be acknowledged that isds has given rise to abuses and legitimate concerns. but for the debate to be serious, it also needs to recognize that what is being proposed to this plenary is the end of private isds as we know it. what is proposed is a completely new, public, transparent system, not with lawyers appointed by private investors, but with professional judges appointed by the states and an appeal body. and that makes all the difference. this report sends a clear message to the negotiators: ttip will only be possible if these demands are met. and that is why it is an important step towards a good ttip agreement.
madam president, i think you mispronounced my name, which is why i didn't get up. it seems to me undeniable that the agreement with the united states will have obvious advantages on both sides of the atlantic, which will objectively translate into more employment, more production, more choice for consumers and also new opportunities for citizens, especially young people. that is why i think it is essential to respect the difficult balance achieved in inta with regard to the european parliament's common position which we are discussing here today. we know that our fellow europeans and our american partners are following the debate we are having here with interest. i would therefore like to stress the importance of the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications in the framework of this agreement, but always, always with a view to wider protection at global level. many of our european traditions are linked to our territory, which is naturally diverse. in addition, they represent important sources of income and of population settlement in several regions of the union. finally, i welcome the inclusion of the protection of geographical indications in the text of the recommendation and hope that these principles will never be forgotten by the negotiating team and the european commission.
madam president, i think that we must first of all draw attention to a point which is not technical but political: the commission's proposal is that an agreement between the european union and the united states is essential in the context of today's globalisation. it is the only way that the values that we have on human rights first, but also on the environment, on labour rights, and which are shared values, even if they have some differences, can prevail in the framework of globalisation. and so what is at stake here, far more than a technical standard or a win here or a win there, is a genuine political agreement of great importance. i would also like to say that i am very pleased with the progress made in the matter of dispute settlement, but i would be much happier if we were able to set up a permanent arbitration tribunal of our own, or even set up a judicial institution for this agreement alone. i think we would win in transparency and i think we would win in trust in the legal order.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the crisis. moreover, there is a mutual benefit, since it is an essential activity for job creation and for boosting economic activity in french guiana itself. the question now is to give this activity a proper framework. if it were not for the unnecessary and inconsequential institutional conflict created by the council, this question could have been resolved long ago. in any case, once this conflict is over, we propose that we adopt this recommendation as soon as possible. it should be noted that the bolivarian republic of venezuela has been complying with all the commitments contained in this agreement, in particular as regards target species, vessel tracking devices, catch reporting and other aspects provided for in european regulations. this is another reason why this recommendation should be adopted immediately.
‒ i am voting in favour of the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors, as i consider that she is well placed to fulfil her mandate. i therefore wish you the greatest happiness in the performance of your duties.
‒ having heard the council's nomination for the post of member of the court of auditors and the report, i am in favour of the council nominating bettina michelle jakobsen for the post of member of the court of auditors. in addition to an impeccable cv, i would like to highlight the candidate's extensive experience in the field of public sector audits, which is a key element for a member of the court of auditors to perform well.
‒ the hearing held by the committee on budgetary control of bettina michelle jakobsen, proposed by the council as a member of the court of auditors, assessed, by means of a questionnaire, aspects of her professional experience and sought to ascertain the candidate's impartiality and independence, in accordance with article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that, with regard to the members of the court of auditors, 'they shall offer every guarantee of independence'. the committee responsible gave a favourable opinion on the nomination of the danish candidate and, appreciating the professional experience and the guarantees of independence given, i voted in favour of the report in order to convey the positive opinion of the consultation carried out by the european parliament.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. the court of auditors was set up in 1977 to audit the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union. to this end, the appointment of its members must be based on criteria of competence and independence. all the data submitted for this option, including the replies to the questionnaire for candidates for the court of auditors and their curriculum vitae, supported my decision. in addition, the committee on budgetary control heard the applicant and assessed her qualifications, in particular as regards the conditions laid down in article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ since the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications and has heard the candidate bettina michelle jakobsen, there is no reason to vote against her nomination as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ following the sudden death last february of the danish member of the court of auditors and former auditor general henrik otbo - an invaluable loss for the european court to the audit world in general, as well as to his former colleagues at the court of auditors of denmark and, of course, to his family and friends - bettina michelle jakobsen, a lawyer and auditor with 25 years of experience, has been proposed as the new danish member of the european court of auditors. in view of her academic and professional background, the committee on budgetary control gave a favourable appraisal of the candidate's qualifications for the post, in particular as regards the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and delivered a favourable opinion. i have voted in favour of this decision, as there are no grounds for opposing the appointment in question.
‒ the person to be appointed is the deputy auditor-general to head the 'citizens' department, responsible for conducting audits in the main areas related to citizens, i.e. the ministry of employment, the ministry of youth, gender equality, integration and social affairs, the ministry of economic and interior affairs, the ministry of health, the ministry of church affairs and the ministry of culture. financial, compliance and performance audits of six ministries, central government payments to municipalities and regional performance audits. management of four directors and about 50 staff members. member of the management team of the danish national audit office (executive board). it seems to fit our profile.
in writing. - i support the report by mr jiří maštálka on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise by the union of its rights under the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation, which will (for reasons of clarity and rationality) codify council regulation no 3286/94. in view of an amendment to the original proposal which had been introduced in the meantime, the commission decided to submit in accordance with article 293 (2) of the tfeu an amended proposal for the codification of the regulation in question which preserves the content of the codified acts in full. the act in question follows the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 between the commission, the council and parliament, which establishes an accelerated procedure which can be used for the rapid adoption of consolidated acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise by the union of its rights under international trade rules, in particular those established within the world trade organisation. the proposal in question aims to codify existing texts without substantial changes, which, from the point of view of legislative technique, with a view to simplifying existing legal rules, deserves my agreement.
in the light of the foregoing, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. council regulation (ec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise by the union of its rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation has already been amended several times. as i believe that legislation should be clear and simple, i believe that codifying this diploma is the best way of ensuring legal certainty and proximity to the citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in view of the favourable opinion given to the amended proposal by parliament's legal service advisory group and also in view of the fact that the amendments contained in the proposal are merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes to the legislative text, i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution under consideration.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the amended proposal for a regulation laying down various european union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy. the main objective is to codify council regulation (ec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 in order to ensure that the union can exercise its rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto). this is a procedure whereby the european parliament decides in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and on an equal footing with the council. the common commercial policy must be governed by criteria of standardisation and the codification of this regulation has therefore established procedures ensuring the effective exercise of the union's rights under the rules of international trade, in particular by introducing a transparent legal mechanism to which member states may have recourse when trade is impeded or affected by third countries. the consolidation of this regulation has brought clarification of the commission's powers and the examination and consultation procedures.
‒ this report codifies council regulation (eec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise by the union of its rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. we accept the principle of simplification, but we condemn the liberalization of world trade, that is, the opening up of markets to competition between countries with enormous disparities in the level of economic development, and its consequences: the increase in poverty and inequalities worldwide, the attack on the achievements of workers and the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by the large multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, environmental destruction, the increase in unemployment and the ruin of millions of small farmers.
‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 establishing european union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise by the eu of its rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. we reject the liberalization of world trade, that is, the opening up of markets to competition between countries with enormous disparities in the levels of economic development, with all the consequences that this entails: increasing poverty and inequalities worldwide, the attack on the achievements of workers and the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by the large multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, environmental destruction, the increase in unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers and the undermining of food sovereignty and food security. so, although this proposal is merely a simple codification of existing texts, we voted against it.
‒ codification is a means of simplifying and clarifying union law in order to make it more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. the commission has therefore undertaken to carry out an analysis to identify the rules in force, based on a comparison of a multitude of different acts. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the report preserves the content of the codified acts in full, merely bringing them together and only making the formal changes required by the codification process itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ as in the text above, i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament and council regulation on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the proposal in question aims to codify existing texts without substantial changes, which, from the point of view of legislative technique, with a view to simplifying existing legal rules, deserves my agreement.
in the light of the fact that the proposal in question is simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes, i shall vote in favour of this report. i am in favour of simplifying and clarifying european union legislation as a principle of legal certainty, proximity to the citizen and easy access.
‒ the sale of vessels at harmful prices threatens the european union industry, which is still recovering from the past effects of dumping and subsidiarity. in this connection, and in view of the particular nature of ship trade, which escapes the ordinary anti-dumping measures, it is essential to codify council directive (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the aim of this report is to approve the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the legislative text. i therefore voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution, in accordance with the approval given to the report by the legal services consultative group.
‒ since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has delivered a favourable opinion and considers that the proposal in question is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes to the texts, there is no reason to vote against or even to abstain.
‒ simplification and clarification of union law cannot be achieved while there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading of both the original act and the acts amending it. on 1 april 1987 the commission decided to instruct its departments to codify all the legislative acts after a maximum of 10 amendments had been made. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the report preserves the content of the codified acts in full, merely bringing them together and only making the formal changes required by the codification process itself.
‒ codification is a means of simplifying and clarifying european union law. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially, which requires a reading both of the original act and of the acts amending it. a considerable amount of analysis is therefore required to identify the rules in force on the basis of a comparison of a multitude of different acts. for this reason, and in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the law, it is necessary to codify the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments. on 1 april 1987 the european commission decided to instruct its departments to codify all legislative acts after a maximum of 10 amendments had been made. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the report preserves the content of the codified acts in full, merely bringing them together and only making the formal changes required by the codification process itself. we voted in favour.
‒ the manufacturing industry in french guiana is partly dependent on the exploitation of the living natural resources of its exclusive economic zone (eez). since there is no eu-venezuela international fisheries agreement, cooperation is not in line with the european legal order. the commission has therefore proposed an eu commitment to give up fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. the legal solution found - a statement to be made by the council with the approval of the european parliament - seems appropriate to the small scale of the activity in question. the declaration takes shape by virtue of decision no 2012/19/eu, but the council changed the legal basis, making parliament an advisory body instead of a body to which it needed to seek approval. parliament and the commission brought actions before the court of justice of the european union, which held that parliament's decision was not only advisory but binding in the sense that its approval is required. the institutional conflict being resolved, i support this recommendation that the procedure for adopting this proposal should be completed as soon as possible, thus providing the appropriate framework for fishing activity in this region.
‒ the processing industry of french guiana depends in part on the exploitation of the natural resources of its eez by the fishing fleet of the bolivarian republic of venezuela. this is a mutually beneficial situation that has been in place and allowed for decades, with some of the catches landing in local ports, which ensure an important source of income and job creation in the region. this is the case despite the absence of an international agreement between the eu and the bolivarian republic of venezuela, a situation which has been hampered by an institutional conflict promoted by the council over the legal basis for the operation of the venezuelan fleet in french guiana waters, which should have been overcome long ago. it should be noted that the bolivarian republic of venezuela has been complying with the counterparts associated with this proposal, in particular with respect to eu regulations, in particular as regards stocks of target species, types of fishing gear, vessel tracking devices, catch declarations, maximum number of authorised vessels and proportion of catches landed in french guiana ports. we regret that the council's position has caused the conclusion of this agreement to be unduly delayed.
‒ given the economic and social importance of the activity in the region, venezuelan vessels have been allowed to fish for several decades, in return for some of the catches being landed in local ports. the landing and processing of fishery products thus represent an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana. that's why i'm in favour.
the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) calls on the government of the drc to take all necessary measures to ensure that the drc is not subject to any form of sanctions. this statement was given shape in decision no 2012/19/eu, whereby the council took parliament as an advisory body, rather than a body from which it needed to seek approval. in order to resolve this institutional conflict, the commission and the european parliament brought actions before the court of justice of the european union (cjeu), which, after examining the cases, ruled in favour of parliament's position, confirming in it that decisions on the conclusion of fisheries agreements are fully covered by the treaty on the functioning of the eu. as a result of the ecj's interpretation, the ep's decision is not only advisory but binding, and therefore the ep's approval is indispensable. the commission has therefore again submitted the statement to parliament and, in line with the requirements of the community legal order and also taking into account that venezuela has been complying with the counterparts associated with the proposal, i voted in favour of the above legislative proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union granting fishing opportunities to vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana because venezuela has been complying with all the numerous counterparts associated with this proposal. in the absence of an international agreement between the eu and venezuela on fisheries, i am of the opinion that it is necessary to provide this activity with a stable framework to regulate this cooperation, which is an essential aspect for job creation and the stimulation of economic activity in french guiana.
‒ fishing vessels flying the venezuelan flag have been allowed to operate in the guyana eez for several decades, in return for part of the catches being landed in local ports. however, there is no eu-venezuela international fisheries agreement and a legal solution is needed that meets the requirements of the community legal order, in particular the common fisheries policy, as regards the conservation and management of fisheries resources. the solution found in the meantime was the adoption of an eu compromise proposal on the transfer of fishing rights to venezuelan vessels, by means of a council declaration, which did not have the approval of the european parliament as required and was subsequently confirmed by a decision of the court of justice. given that decisions on the conclusion of external fisheries agreements require the approval of the european parliament, it is urgent to resolve this institutional conflict of a legal nature by means of this legislative resolution, given the economic and social importance of these fishing activities and what they represent as a source of resources and jobs for french guiana. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ generally speaking, i support fisheries agreements between the european union and third countries. in this agreement, i voted in favour of the european union granting fishing opportunities to the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. the european union's fisheries agreements with third countries are important for three types of reasons: they allow the exploitation of water resources, thereby contributing to food security; they offer financial compensation to countries that have sovereignty over resources; and finally, because they help to structure the sustainable and responsible use of fisheries in general. thanks to the strategy implemented by the european union, we are contributing to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, we are increasing the efficiency of monitoring and we are contributing to a better understanding of the functioning of the oceans. following the approval process of this fisheries agreement, the court of justice of the european union confirmed that decisions on the conclusion of external fisheries agreements do not require binding approval by the european parliament. this was an important step towards clarifying and dignifying the role of the european institutions.
‒ this agreement is mutually beneficial, as the landing and processing of fishery products is an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana. it should be noted that the bolivarian republic of venezuela has complied with all the counterparts associated with this proposal and has acted in accordance with european regulations as regards the stocks to be caught, the type of gear, vessel tracking devices, the reporting of catches, the maximum number of fishing vessels authorized and the percentage of catches to be landed in french guiana ports. the aim is to provide a stable framework for this activity, since there has been no international agreement governing this cooperation. it is not a question of a new, unnecessary and inconsequential institutional conflict triggered by the council, and this question could have been resolved long ago.
‒ for several decades, the venezuelan fleet has been fishing in french guiana's waters. this is mutually beneficial, as the landing and processing of fishery products is an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana. the aim is to provide a stable framework for this activity, since there has been no international agreement governing this cooperation. we have voted in favour of this recommendation without further ado. it should be noted that the bolivarian republic of venezuela has complied with all the counterparts associated with this proposal and has acted in accordance with european regulations as regards the stocks to be caught, the type of gear, vessel tracking devices, the reporting of catches, the maximum number of fishing vessels authorized and the percentage of catches to be landed in french guiana ports.
‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus for the financial year 2014 amounting to eur 1 435 million, in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation and the council's position on it. i support this report and stress that its adoption will reduce the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget by eur 1 435 million and therefore more than offset its contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015 relating to the mobilisation of the eusf for romania, bulgaria and italy, with a total amount of eur 66.5 million.
‒ this is a highly technical project, aimed at introducing the surplus of eur 1 435 million for the financial year 2014 into the 2015 budget. transfers between headings are not possible due to the lack of flexibility of the eu budget imposed by the eu treaties and the requirements of the multiannual financial framework. each year, although there is a budget deficit in some headings, there are others which, due to lack of sufficient applications or implementation problems, may show a surplus at the end of the year. if there is money that has not been spent on an item in a given year, one of two things can happen, either that money is deducted from the member states' contribution (indexed to gni) or there is an effort to try to reintroduce it in the next year in the eu budget. in practice, this amount will be used to partially reduce member states' contributions, where it could and should be used as a boost, not by reducing those contributions, which are already insufficient, in particular for programmes where a lack of payment appropriations has been detected: in the social and environmental areas.
‒ i fully support the criticism in this report that the council systematically fails to honour its commitments to countries in difficulty and that they fulfil the requirements for mobilising the european solidarity fund by mobilising additional resources as provided for in the 2014-2020 mff, preferring to reallocate other budget lines. although i regret that this amount is being used to partially reduce member states' contributions, rather than using these appropriations to strengthen programmes more advantageously, i voted in favour because i think that in any case it is better not to waste money.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget by eur 1 435 million and will therefore more than offset their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015. the two files are subject to a common timetable for adoption, since they are closely linked from a political point of view. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus of the 2014 financial year, amounting to eur 1 435 million. in the context of the budgetary negotiations for 2015, the council insisted on the transfer of payments related to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 to the 2015 budget, for a total amount of eur 126,7 million. i believe that the council must honour its commitments, especially to countries in need who meet the conditions for the mobilisation of the eusf, by mobilising the additional resources provided for by the special instruments.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget is intended to enter the surplus for the financial year 2014 in the 2015 budget. the rapporteur considers, however, that the surplus presented could have been paid from the 2014 budget in order to honour the council's commitments to countries in need (7 cases in total) whose applications fulfilled the conditions for the mobilisation of the additional resources provided for by the special instruments under the european union solidarity fund. regretting the general trend towards a reduction in the member states' per capita income-based contributions to the union budget, i voted in favour of the report on the council position approving the budgeting of the 2014 surplus in the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to endorse the council's position on draft amending budget no 3/2015. i voted in favour of this report because it only enters in the 2015 budget the surplus for the financial year 2014, amounting to eur 1 435 million. the approval of this draft amending budget no 3/2015 will offset its contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on draft amending budget (db) no 3/2015 is intended to enter in the community budget for 2015 the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 budgetary year in the amount of eur 1 435 million. it is also stressed that budgeting for surplus will reduce, to the same extent, the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget for 2015. more specifically, it will reduce the share of gni-based contributions from the member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2015 is technical in nature, aiming at entering in the 2015 budget the surplus of the 2014 financial year in the amount of eur 1 435 million. as transfers between headings are not possible due to the lack of flexibility of the eu budget imposed by the eu treaties and the requirements of the mff, each year, despite a budget deficit in some headings, there are others that, due to insufficient applications or implementation problems, may have a surplus at the end of the year.
‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2015 is technical in nature, aiming at the entry in the 2015 budget of the surplus of the 2014 financial year in the amount of eur 1 435 million. as transfers between headings are not possible due to the lack of flexibility of the eu budget imposed by the eu treaties and the requirements of the mff, there are headings which, due to insufficient applications/applications or implementation problems, may have a surplus at the end of the year. the report criticises the council's systematic failure to honour its commitments to countries in need and eligible for eusf mobilisation by mobilising additional resources as provided for in the 2014-2020 mff agreement for special instruments, opting instead for reallocation of other budget lines. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 66 505 850 to respond to the consequences of the floods in romania that occurred in spring and summer 2014: in bulgaria in july and august 2014 and in italy in october and november 2014. this action implies a budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget. the surplus accumulated in 2014 and presented in draft amending budget no 3/2015 allows for this adjustment without any problem. the amending budget aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget. we have obviously voted in favour of this proposal. we must show our full solidarity with the people affected. the aid amounts are eur 4 198 175 (floods in romania in spring), eur 4 297 775 (floods in romania in summer), eur 1 983 600 (bulgaria) and eur 56 026 300 (italy). an increase of eur 66 505 850 is to be provided in budget article 13 06 01 (eusf for member states) to be budgeted outside the mff ceilings. in addition, eur 403,9 million not used in 2014 can be used during 2015, while eur 50 million has already been mobilised and entered in the 2015 budget. the union contribution for 2015 amounts to a total of eur 875 million.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations following two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, with aid applications totalling eur 8 495 950, floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014, with aid applications totalling eur 1 983 600, and floods in italy in october/november 2014, with aid applications totalling eur 56 026 300. i am in favour of approving this aid to the countries affected by these natural disasters, hence my vote.
‒ the text under discussion approves the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerning the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to respond to major natural disasters in the member states. the total amount of eur 66 505 850 is intended to provide aid to the populations affected by the floods in regions of romania, bulgaria and italy and this proposal is intended to formally enter the contribution made from the budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support draft amending budget no 4/2015, as it aims to formally enter in the 2015 budget the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 66 505 850 and in commitment and payment appropriations following two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014 and floods in italy in october/november 2014.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 4/2015 is intended to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations. this mobilisation follows tragedies in three member states: two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014 (with aid applications amounting to eur 8 495 950); floods in bulgaria in july and august 2014 (with aid applications amounting to eur 1 983 600); and floods in italy in october and november 2014 (with aid applications amounting to eur 56 026 300). following the commission's examination of the four cases, in accordance with the legal criteria applicable to the case, it was proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for each of the four cases concerning romania, bulgaria and italy. given the solidarity nature of the eusf and the urgent need to release financial assistance to these three countries affected by natural disasters, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 proposes financial assistance to respond to the consequences of two floods in romania, which occurred in spring and summer 2014, and in bulgaria, in july and august 2014 and in italy in october and november 2014. this action implies a budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget. it aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget as the surplus accumulated in 2014 and presented in draft amending budget no 3/2015 allows this adjustment without any problem.
in writing. ‒ the financial aid we have approved amounts to €4 198 175 (floods in romania, spring), €4 297 775 (floods in romania, summer), €1 983 600 (bulgaria) and €56 026 300 (italy). an increase of eur 66 505 850 is to be provided in budget article 13 06 01 (eu solidarity fund for member states), to be budgeted outside the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. in addition, the amounts of eur 403,9 million not used in 2014 can be used during 2015, while eur 50 million has already been mobilised and entered in the 2015 budget. eur 895,1 million remains available for mobilisation of the eusf in 2015. we voted yes.
‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state and countries negotiating its accession in the event of a major natural disaster. this fund complements public funds from member states in emergency situations, in particular for the urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure, temporary accommodation and emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population, as well as for the clean-up of areas affected by the disaster. in 2014, romania, bulgaria and italy were affected by severe floods which caused high damage and loss in their respective countries. following the disasters, the countries concerned requested assistance from the european union solidarity fund. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund to alleviate the pain, suffering and loss of the people affected by these disasters.
‒ the report proposes the mobilisation of the eusf to respond to the consequences of floods in romania, which occurred in spring and summer 2014, in bulgaria in july and august 2014, and in italy in october and november 2014. this mobilisation requires a specific budgetary procedure and is therefore linked to the establishment and adoption of amending budget no 4/2015. the aid is set at eur 4 198 175 (for the spring floods in romania), eur 4 297 775 (for the summer floods in romania), eur 1 983 600 (for bulgaria) and eur 56 026 300 (for italy). in the face of natural disasters, all solidarity is owed to the people affected. naturally, we voted in favour of this report. however, in this context, it is important to underline the importance of supporting disaster prevention, upstream of the mobilisation of this fund, by immediately following up the recommendations of the european parliament, such as those contained in the ferreira report, adopted in september 2010, on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters.
in writing. ‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. this european union solidarity fund enables the european union to respond quickly and efficiently to major emergencies, showing solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. this mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is taking place following the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014).
‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014), under point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. like the catastrophe that occurred in the autonomous region of madeira on 20 february 2010, i believe that this mobilization is extremely important for the economic and social recovery of the affected areas.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that all its citizens are protected against the threat of terrorism. the applications were considered eligible under the criteria considered relevant and, in line with the founding principles of the european union, i voted in favour of the joint decision of the european parliament and of the council allocating the above-mentioned amount in commitment and payment appropriations to the peoples affected by the natural disasters in 2014.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to large-scale natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions in europe. this proposal aims at mobilising the european solidarity fund following the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014). the eu must stand in solidarity with its members who suffer natural disasters and i recognise the urgency of providing financial assistance through the eusf, agreeing to a financial contribution of eur 66 505 850.
‒ this proposal is intended to mobilise the eu solidarity fund following the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 lays down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, in which the eusf is intended to be mobilised, within an annual ceiling of eur 541,2 million, in addition to the corresponding headings of the financial framework. in the light of the requests from romania, bulgaria and italy, the calculation of the fund's assistance, based on the estimate of the total damage caused, amounts to eur 66 505 850, and the commission has proposed to mobilise the fund for the same amount. the commission also proposes to apply a rate of 2.5% to total direct losses in the four cases, as the respective threshold for major disasters was not reached in any of them. this mobilisation will entail an adjustment to the 2015 budget which should be budgeted outside the ceilings foreseen for the mff. this amount is in line with the ceiling of eur 541.2 million applicable to the eusf and since there are no grounds for rejecting this proposal, i have voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 proposes financial assistance to respond to the consequences of two floods in romania, which occurred in spring and summer 2014, and in bulgaria, in july and august 2014 and in italy in october and november 2014. this action implies a budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget. it aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2015 budget as the surplus accumulated in 2014 and presented in draft amending budget no 3/2015 allows this adjustment without any problem.
in writing. ‒ the financial aid we have approved amounts to €4 198 175 (floods in romania, spring), €4 297 775 (floods in romania, summer), €1 983 600 (bulgaria) and €56 026 300 (italy). an increase of eur 66 505 850 is to be provided in budget article 13 06 01 (eu solidarity fund for member states), to be budgeted outside the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. in addition, the amounts of eur 403,9 million not used in 2014 can be used during 2015, while eur 50 million has already been mobilised and entered in the 2015 budget. eur 895,1 million remains available for mobilisation of the eusf in 2015. we voted yes.
‒ the mobility of european citizens is an essential requirement for the exercise of their fundamental freedoms, with crossborder multimodal travel planning and ticketing services for long-distance journeys posing a major challenge to the transport sector, benefiting consumers, the wider economy, the environment and the tourism sector. i therefore support the dieter-lebrecht koch report because i think it deals in a coordinated and moderate way with the creation of integrated tickets, with measures to remove existing obstacles, stressing the crucial importance of social mobility, but always taking into account the possibility of choosing, on the basis of complete information, the user's journey, taking into account, on the other hand, the high costs of introducing an integrated ticket which should not lead to a significant increase in the price of tickets, discouraging the use of public transport. i would stress the importance of this interoperability of multimodal travel plans with information technology systems and the parties involved should develop joint solutions in this regard.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with a report full of apparently good intentions which cannot, however, hide its real intentions. the aim will not be so much to ensure better and more sustainable mobility for people as to further liberalize and privatise the transport sector and the inevitable monopolistic concentration that always follows. this is evidenced by the references to the fourth railway package, the single european transport area or the single european sky. the report also includes some logical and pertinent considerations on multimodality and the ease of transport and travel planning in the european area, but unfortunately these seem to be the cover that covers the real wishes of the report, which seem to fall within the scope of tisa (international agreement on trade and services). the intention to promote good business for multinationals at the expense of public investment is evident. as for the rest, not a word about the attacks on the public transport system, such as those currently taking place in portugal, promoted by the eu, aimed at privatising public transport. this is after the attack under the imf-eu aggression programme, which has brutally increased the price of transport, reduced supply and degraded the quality of service.
‒ with the creation of this integrated ticketing system for multimodal travel in europe, we are making a significant contribution to the realisation of a single european transport area and a european internal market. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the possibility of a single, integrated ticket for the different modes of transport in the 28 member states is still far from being a reality. for a tourist, travel information, the possibility to plan, book and/or buy online are elements that will make the union a more accessible and attractive destination. on the other hand, peer-to-peer mobility will bring direct benefits to union citizens. in addition, the integrated single ticket provides a solution to congestion and other traffic problems. i believe that this system for multimodal travel in europe should be implemented by developing products and services in the private sector, which, together with the public authorities, should provide the means for its implementation. however, for this to be possible, it is imperative that there is equal access on a non-discriminatory basis to travel data in different countries. local and regional authorities must also be linked together via an interoperable platform. looking at an example where ticketing is already a reality, the case of the united kingdom, the platforms and data are open to all operators, making it possible to create a single system. for the reasons i have just described, i am voting in favour of this document.
‒ in order to make it easier, more feasible and cheaper to choose, book and pay for door-to-door multimodal transport, the european commission is defining, by means of a delegated act, specifications to ensure the exchange and development of the real-time traffic information service for european passengers. the proposal is part of the european transport policy and its ultimate aim is to strengthen the exercise of the fundamental freedoms of eu citizens while stimulating tourism and, consequently, the economy. the economic gains are complemented by the contributions to the sustainability of the european transport sector and the more efficient use of available infrastructure. the draft resolution which i voted for calls on the competent authorities of the member states to introduce, by 2020, up-to-date national information systems and intelligent systems providing real-time information on the location of transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which encourages the creation of a single ticket for transport, irrespective of the different modes of transport used. the report calls on member states to improve their national information systems on timetables and fares and to implement 'intelligent systems providing real-time information' by 2020. i welcome the contribution of this report to the creation of a single european transport area. information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at eu level are a substantial part of the response to the challenges of european transport policy.
‒ this own-initiative report proposes the creation of an integrated ticketing system for multimodal travel in europe, as objective 22 of the 2011 white paper, which envisaged the creation of seamless 'door-to-door' multimodal transport with intelligent, interoperable and multimodal scheduling, information, online booking and ticketing systems, has not yet been achieved. like the rapporteur, i consider the multimodal ticketing system to be a very important and integral element of the transport network as such, providing solutions which are attractive to users, sustainable and economically viable, energy efficient and environmentally friendly, avoiding congestion, traffic jams or other traffic problems. i therefore support the long-term objective proposed by the rapporteur: to provide comprehensive information on the offers of public and private companies in the aviation, rail, maritime and road sectors throughout the eu, thus offering travellers a multimodal, cross-border and door-to-door solution, which does not currently exist, and the proposal to link local and regional authorities through a common platform, with the aim of moving together towards a real-time traffic information service across the eu.
‒ the report calls for the creation of a dialogue platform, involving all transport sector representatives and the competent authorities at local, regional, national and european level, with a view to developing viable mechanisms for the gradual introduction at eu level of interoperable electronic ticketing systems, taking into account the entire travel cycle, from planning to purchasing tickets, and to identify and resolve, in a proportionate manner, the problems of distributing the revenues from the sale of tickets and of sharing the costs in the event of a dispute between the contracting parties. however, it considers that these solutions should be developed in a market-oriented way and urges the commission to promote strongly, through eu co-financing synergies in this area, between the trans-european telecommunications and transport networks. in other words, it is part of the logic of privatising the public transport service which we advocate and which has been gradually destroyed in the course of the integration process.
‒ what we consider negative is that this project aims to deepen the path of liberalization and privatization of the transport sector and the inevitable monopolistic concentration that always occurs. this is evidenced by the references to the fourth railway package, the single european transport area or the single european sky. the report also includes some logical and pertinent considerations on multimodality and the ease of transport and travel planning in the european area, but unfortunately these seem to be the cover that covers the real desired objectives of the report, which seem to fall within the scope of the international trade and services agreement (tisa). as for the rest, not a word about the attacks on the public transport system, such as those currently taking place in portugal, promoted by the eu, aimed at privatising public transport. this is after the attack under the imf-eu aggression programme, which has brutally increased the price of transport, reduced supply and degraded the quality of service.
‒ in the wake of the scandal known as luxleaks involving the current president of the european commission, we proposed a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate in detail the details and implications of the scandal, a proposal that was rejected by the majority groups in parliament, namely the right and the social democrats. in view of what had become known of the secret agreements concluded by the luxembourg government and tax authorities with multinational companies to save them from paying the taxes due and in view of public pressure, the majority of parliament finally accepted the setting up of a temporary parliamentary committee on early tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email). to that extent, this extension was expected and necessary and we supported it. the practice of colluding between tax administrations and large multinationals to exempt them from paying taxes is becoming more and more common, a widespread practice that links most eu governments and the parties that support them.
‒ given the importance of the matter, i have voted in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures of the same nature or effect.
in writing. ‒ against our initial proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate tax rulings, the european parliament only approved the setting up of a special committee for a six-month term, which included the month of august. it was clear from the start that there was not enough time. to this extent, this extension was expected and necessary in view of the importance of the matter, which increasingly reveals that the practice of collusion between tax administrations and large multinationals to exempt them from paying taxes is a widespread practice that binds most eu governments and the parties that support them.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the budgetary procedure should be extended to cover the expenditure relating to the european union's external action in the field of external relations. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which allows the efsi to be launched as soon as possible, while regretting the negative impact on horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility.
in the case of the commission, the commission will be responsible for the implementation of the budget, including the implementation of the budget for the financial year. this amendment translates into a total amount of eur 1 350 million, which will be reallocated from the connecting europe facility (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) in commitment appropriations. although it is only credit commitments and not payment appropriations that would mean that these programmes would be underfunded, the fact is that this is not a response to the problems facing the countries, as it is not the public investment plan that is actually needed. our vote is therefore inseparable from our assessment of the european fund for strategic investments itself.
in writing. ‒ i have refrained from saying that, although i disagree with the juncker plan and have voted against the efsi on other occasions, this amendment does not change the nature of the fund in any way, either for the better or for the worse. however, i understand that it is regrettable that these funds cannot be used for projects that i consider more relevant such as research grants or support for investment in public infrastructure, as these appropriations were already reserved for the 2014-2020 mff.
‒ this draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to make the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to provide for the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to make the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to provide for the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. i support the role of the union budget in creating added value through resource sharing and ensuring a high degree of synergies between the european structural and investment funds and the efsi, while enhancing the multiplier effect of the union contribution and supporting the mobilisation of additional sources of public and private funding to finance investments to achieve objectives with a european dimension, in particular in the context of addressing cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, environmental and transport infrastructure. i would like to stress the speed with which agreement was reached on the european fund for strategic investments and therefore vote in favour of this budgetary amendment.
in the light of the european parliament's interest in launching the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as soon as possible, this report endorses the council's position on draft amending budget no 1/2015 which provides for the reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. this reallocation is intended to provide the fund with the leverage for strategic investments of high socio-economic value. in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal, hoping that the efsi will indeed provide the necessary impetus and stimulus for innovation, the ultimate guarantee of a more competitive europe in a context of sustainable growth.
‒ this draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to make the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to provide for the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. i welcome the fact that it was possible to reach a rapid agreement on the efsi, thanks to the determination of all the institutions to ensure that it is launched as soon as possible. although the outcome of the negotiations is better than the commission's initial proposal, i regret the negative impact on horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2015, which aims to introduce the necessary amendments to the budget nomenclature, in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and to provide for the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. a total amount of eur 1 350 million is reallocated from the connecting europe facility (cef) (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and the iter project (eur 490 million) in commitment appropriations to the provisioning of the eu guarantee fund in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the so-called juncker plan is seen as a sign of a new cycle not of austerity but of growth and investment. it just so happens that this plan is not an investment plan. this is a creative accounting exercise from which it is hoped to gather the investment that has not hitherto arisen spontaneously from the normal functioning of the market. moreover, this plan is a tribute to public-private partnerships and the promiscuity between governments and big business that live off public revenues. it does not even guarantee a fair geographical distribution of funds. the decision is taken by another body of experts which has no democratic legitimacy whatsoever.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (db) no 1/2015 aims to amend the eu's 2015 budget following the approval and agreement on the efsi - the juncker plan, a plan that targets the interests of high finance and large multinationals, and which maintains a scandalous bet on public-private partnerships. this amendment translates into a total amount of eur 1 350 million, which will be reallocated from the connecting europe facility (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) in commitment appropriations. although these are only credit commitments and not payment appropriations, the fact is that this is not a response to the problems facing the countries, which would require a real public investment plan.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the union's resources to cope with the humanitarian emergency and the strong migratory pressure following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of migratory flows, combining immediate needs, in particular in frontex, easo and support for frontline countries such as greece and italy. i would like to reiterate the concerns expressed in both the libe committee and the committee on budgets. on the one hand, this appropriation may not be sufficient for the emergency situation; on the other hand, it is certain that the 2016 budget should reflect the measures provided for in the 'migration agenda'. i would also stress the urgency of obtaining information from the commission on the appropriations allocated to poseidon and triton. since the appropriation is made through frontex, the commission should clarify the exact amount. especially when it comes to saving lives, half-words don't cut it.
‒ amending budget no 5/2015 proposes an increase in commitment appropriations for the management of migration and refugee flows, amounting to eur 75 722 000, mainly reallocated from the galileo programme (eur 69 652 000). the budget of frontex is proposed to be increased by eur 26.8 million, with 16 posts for the agency, 4 for the european asylum support office (easa) and 3 more for the european police office (europol). we are in favour of a response to the disturbing reality of refugees and a serious approach to the causes of migration, which does not evade the eu's own responsibilities. these resources will cover some of the needs to achieve this response. unfortunately, it falls far short of what is needed to respond to the humanitarian crisis that has been created. on the other hand, this proposal provides for answers at the level of 'border security' with which we do not agree. we deplore the weight of some of the priorities in this proposal - more money to feed the security agenda (frontex and europol), while recognising the importance of the allocation of resources to the easa, despite its insufficiency.
‒ a much greater commitment by the eu is needed to respond to the growing flow of refugees and migrants and to prevent social disaster, from a humanitarian perspective, and this commitment goes straight to the root of the issue, so as to prevent war, poverty, political persecution and other causes that lead to these exodus. without forgetting the eu's role in the origin of so many of these problems. this amending budget gives priority to a security approach by strengthening frontex and europol. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this draft amending budget no 5/2015 is to increase the union's resources for the management of migration flows and refugee flows, following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of migration flows. the increase in commitment appropriations amounts to eur 75 722 000. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to increase the union's resources for the management of migration flows and refugee flows, following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of migration flows. i would point out that the financial burden of the emergency has so far been borne mainly by the national budgets of the southern coastal states of the union. in view of the medium-term macroeconomic forecasts and the opposite demographic trends within the union and in neighbouring areas, in particular in west and central africa, the increase in migration to europe cannot be considered a temporary phenomenon and an adjusted budget is necessary. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a budgetary amendment.
the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to increase the union's resources for the management of migration flows and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean. i voted in favour of this report because the amending budget proposes to increase the staff and budget of the three agencies directly involved in responding to migratory pressures: frontex, the european asylum support office and europol. i welcome the adoption of this first measure to help the union and the member states deal with the most serious migration crisis europe has ever faced.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to increase the union's resources for the management of migration flows and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean, in particular through additional appropriations for frontex, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. taking into account the reallocation margin, the total net increase in appropriations carried over amounts to eur 75,8 million in commitment appropriations and eur 69,7 million in payment appropriations, for budget lines to be financed in full by reallocation from the galileo programme. following the commission's examination of the possibilities for reallocation of appropriations under the 2015 budget, a proposal for additional appropriations - eur 75,8 million in commitment appropriations and eur 69,7 million in payment appropriations - was submitted to provide the additional funding authorised for the 2015 budget for migration measures, which i agreed to.
‒ in view of the migratory pressure from the european union's neighbourhood, mainly west and central africa, and given that this phenomenon cannot be considered temporary and that, until now, it has been the national budgets of the member states that have responded to this situation, it makes perfect sense that the union budget should be strengthened. in this way, the effort required to respond to this situation will not be left solely to the member states directly affected by the phenomenon, allowing for a more integrated union response to an issue which, although having a greater impact on the coastal member states to the south of europe, geographically closer to africa, has effects throughout the union territory which is, after all, the destination of migrants. i therefore consider this budgetary increase to be of the utmost importance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
‒ the amount reallocated from the galileo programme does not reduce this initiative, it is in fact a transfer of money which will not be used this year. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the draft budget to 31 december 2016 by a further two months. the draft budget amendment also includes an increase in frontex's budget by eur 26.8 million, with 16 posts for the agency, 4 for the european asylum support office (easa) and 3 more for the european police office (europol). these resources will cover some of the most urgent aspects of the problems, and fall far short of what is needed to respond to the humanitarian crisis created and caused by the eu, and this report calls for and includes border security responses with which we do not agree.
‒ commission amending budget no 5/2015 budg proposes, in order to manage migration and refugee flows, an increase in commitment appropriations amounting to eur 75 722 000, largely reallocated from the galileo programme (eur 69 652 000). the draft budget amendment includes an increase in frontex's budget by eur 26.8 million, with 16 posts for the agency, 4 for the european asylum support office (easa) and 3 more for the european police office (europol). in this report, what is advocated is an increase in security responses, border surveillance and the repression of migrants, with which we do not agree. we regret the weight of some of the priorities chosen in this decision, as more money is being put into the security agencies (frontex and europol). the funding for frontex's activities is provided for the triton (italy) and poseidon (greece) projects, which we reject and which represent failed solutions. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in recent months, as we have been observing and warning, there has been a fall in demand from external markets. the volatility of the global price and the effects of the russian embargo have put increased pressure on the milk sector and downward pressure on prices. it is therefore clear that the eu's crisis measures for the dairy sector are grossly inadequate and do not correspond to the reality and needs of all the member states. existing safeguards, such as public intervention and aid for private storage, are neither adequate nor sufficient. the eu regulatory framework does not allow for episodes of extreme market volatility or a crisis situation after the end of the quota system. this 'milk package' argues that market conditions are favourable and that there are large export opportunities to be exploited, recommending that the european fund for strategic investments should be used to drive this expansion. finally, they try to hide the fact that only regulation of production, in particular through a system of quotas adapted to the needs and potential of each country, can safeguard production in countries like portugal and prevent the real liquidation situations which are already looming. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission must urgently take additional market measures to resolve the milk crisis. following the downward pressure on prices resulting from the lack of adequate crisis prevention instruments, a slump in world demand, price volatility and the russian embargo on european dairy products, it is of the utmost importance to safeguard a sector with a significant socioeconomic contribution to agricultural and rural development.
in writing. ‒ the so-called 'milk package' entered into force on 3 october 2012 and is valid until 30 june 2020. it was decided in the 2003 mid-term review of the common agricultural policy (cap) that milk quotas were to expire on 31 march 2015. however, given the specific nature of milk production in mountain areas, less-favoured areas and the outermost regions of the european union, the measures set out in the resolution of 11 december 2013 advocate the maintenance of such production after the expiry of the milk quota system. i am voting in favour of this report because it argues that the abolition of quotas would have a largely detrimental effect on the outermost regions, especially in the autonomous region of the azores, where milk production is the main economic activity, representing some 46% of the regional economy. i am therefore voting in favour of this report because of the foregoing and because the rapporteur stresses the importance of creating a transitional mechanism in the outermost regions between the end of quotas and the liberalisation of the markets, which will protect producers and the sector in these regions.
‒ the report made a first effort to assess the effects of the 'milk package' in the dairy sector, adopted under the co-decision procedure in 2012, with the aim of strengthening the position of milk and milk products producers in the supply chain and preparing the sector for a sustainable and more market-oriented future. the end of milk production quotas, after 30 years of implementation, presents challenges in terms of market volatility or a crisis situation, and which the milk package considers necessary to prepare the sector for a sustainable future. in terms of the operation of the 'milk package', the report indicates that it has improved relationships throughout the supply chain, stressing that it is too early to see any significant effects. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. i voted in favour of the report.
‒ my colleague ricardo serrão santos, azorean mep for the s&d, was the shadow rapporteur for this report by the parliament's agriculture committee. it finds that a significant proportion of dairy farms in the eu are located in disadvantaged, outermost, island or mountain regions, where the costs of producing, collecting and marketing milk and milk products are often much higher than in other areas better located within the eu. the abolition of quotas is expected to have a very negative impact on these outermost regions, such as the autonomous region of the azores, where milk production is the main economic activity, representing about 46% of the regional economy. the european commission therefore needs to take additional market measures to address the crisis facing the sector, by pursuing ambitious policies to support these regions, increasing the bargaining power and influence of producers, working to open up new markets in third countries and removing barriers to trade, while balancing exports with a stable internal market.
‒ there are several challenges facing the dairy sector after the end of milk quotas on 31 march this year. the volatility of prices, the impact of the russian embargo and the need to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, in particular the azores, where milk production is the main economic activity, representing approximately 46% of the total value of the regional economy, are highlighted. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations, particularly as regards the existence of regulatory instruments, the adjustment of intervention prices by raising them, the definition of indicators on production costs, the development of instruments to protect against milk price falls, the analysis of new instruments to stabilise incomes and the need to create a limit for unfair trading practices. i therefore agree with the adoption of this report, which also proposes the allocation of additional resources to the posei programme, creating a transitional mechanism between the end of quotas and the liberalisation of markets. i would also stress the importance of bilateral trade negotiations, the opening up of new markets in third countries and the removal of barriers to trade and exports.
‒ i welcome the content of this report, which identifies the needs of the milk sector, particularly in the azores, and calls on the european commission to act swiftly to promote the stabilisation of the internal market. the combined effect of the end of quotas, the russian embargo and the prolonged and ongoing price collapse limits future options for milk producers and incentives for generational renewal and investment in farms. this issue is of particular importance in areas with natural constraints and economic disadvantages, such as the azores, where dairy activity as an economic activity is hardly substitutable. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. other measures include strengthening posei, measures to address the impact of the end of quotas in the azores, supply management, transparency of the value chain, ensuring that wholesale distribution practices do not undermine the payment of a fair price to the producer, strengthening the milk observatory, mechanisms to protect against sudden income losses in the milk sector and new crisis management tools.
in writing. ‒ as is recognised, the 'milk package' has failed in its attempt to improve the position of milk producers on the market. even with contracts embedded in organisations, milk producers are unable to negotiate an acceptable price for their product with industry. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. we believe that supply management and price setting cannot be done merely on the basis of commercial logic. we therefore propose, through the european milk observatory in conjunction with the national authorities, the introduction of sustainability criteria which take into account production costs and the economic and financial viability of farms.
in writing. ‒ the 'milk package' has failed in its attempt to improve the position of milk producers on the market. even with contracts embedded in organisations, milk producers are unable to negotiate an acceptable price for their product with industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. alternative supply regulation mechanisms are essential to solving this problem and this report does not assume that.
‒ in the wake of the economic crisis europe is experiencing, ppps can be a stimulus for job creation, competitiveness and productivity in third countries. despite the negative value attributed to them, for example in portugal, due to their poor implementation, ppps are essentially intended to create high added value for citizens and consumers, to guarantee quality services and goods, and to provide competitive and economic advantages for public administrations. i support the zahradil report because it considers that both smes and large companies can provide knowledge, experience, good practices and networks specific to the private sector involving public authorities in third countries, contributing to the implementation of policies for sustainable development. the obstacles which european companies continue to face on third country markets must be tackled.
‒ the report deals with eu investment in so-called public-private partnerships (ppps) in third countries. ppps are one of the most visible and finished demonstrations of a certain vision of the state, captured and at the service of private interests. we are well aware of the disastrous results in portugal and the consequences of the waste of public resources and their transfer to large economic and financial groups. the report considers that some positive experiences of ppps result from 'better project execution, good quality or value for money, long-term financing of infrastructure construction costs, stimulation of innovation and research', etc. this report attributes to ppps a whole set of virtues which are not true. ppps have contributed to the dismantling of public services and their democratic character. they have been a determining factor in the worsening of regional asymmetries. this report aims to 'export' ppps and force them through trade policies with third countries. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ there are positive experiences of ppps which result from the following elements: better project execution, good quality or value for money, long-term financing of infrastructure construction costs, stimulation of innovation and research, participation of the private sector both in the construction and operation of projects and also in terms of financing, more flexible and qualified management environment, resource benefits for renowned companies and smes and enhanced competitiveness of eu companies for participation in public contracts in third countries. increased participation by european companies in large-scale international projects, including ppps, could bring substantial benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation, resulting in socio-economic benefits and economic growth throughout the eu and in host countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ public-private partnerships (ppps) are important as drivers of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both in the european single market and internationally, playing a strategic role in modernising energy, water, road and digital infrastructure. i am in favour of this report which calls on the european commission to promote innovative solutions that mobilise private finance and long-term national resources for development objectives, as large-scale investments in developing countries are needed.
‒ free trade agreements concluded by the european union (eu) have an external impact on public/private initiatives in third countries. these agreements are useful for third country governments in ensuring that their citizens have access to infrastructure, goods and services of general interest, while ensuring that european companies, large, medium-sized, small and micro, have the best possible access to public procurement markets in third countries. given the economic, social and technological benefits across the eu and in host countries inherent in public-private partnerships (ppps) between the parties, i voted in favour of the report i have just seen calling on the eu institutions to promote and encourage the participation of european companies in ppp projects.
‒ i welcome the adoption of this report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries, as it contains a number of key points, including references to sound regulatory frameworks, smes, principles of good governance and the fight against corruption. increased participation by european companies in large-scale international projects, including ppps, could bring substantial benefits in terms of productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation, resulting in socio-economic benefits and economic growth throughout the eu and in host countries. for these reasons, and because it is crucial to revitalise job creation, i voted in favour of this document.
‒ public-private partnerships (ppps) can be an important boost to the competitiveness of eu smes vis-à-vis third countries. i share the rapporteur's view that increased participation by european companies in international projects of this kind can bring substantial benefits in terms of job creation and increased productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation. it is of particular interest that this participation translates into socioeconomic benefits in the eu and in the host countries. given these potentials, it is all the more important for the eu institutions to take the necessary measures to promote the participation of eu companies, in particular smes, in ppp projects in third countries.
‒ this own-initiative report, for which i was the shadow rapporteur, highlights the main challenges posed by ppps in the framework of the common commercial policy, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of european companies when participating in public contracts in third countries. in this context, the increased participation of european enterprises in large-scale international projects, particularly in the framework of ppps, will make a significant contribution in terms of job creation, increased productivity and competitiveness and increased technology and innovation, with a clear reflection in terms of economic growth not only in the eu but also in third countries. i therefore naturally endorse and voted in favour of the proposals concerning the need to encourage the participation of european companies, especially smes, in ppp projects, given the scale of investment and the opportunities provided by existing free trade agreements for this type of partnership. i also stress the proposals to include provisions on investment/access to public tenders, the need to establish positive reciprocity in opening up external markets, free of any barriers or protectionism and the assurance to investors that their long-term investment will benefit from sound and effective protection and legal certainty.
‒ public-private partnerships are today for many countries both a symptom of this model of capitalist integration and a cause of the current crisis. this model of european integration, with the single currency and all the budgetary constraints, leaves the states with no room to make the public investments necessary for development. they are becoming dependent on large companies not only for major transport infrastructure but also in such fundamental areas as health, energy and education. i could give many examples of political personalities who go from government to the boards of directors of large economic groups with which the state maintains ppps absolutely ruinous for the citizens. in portugal, ppp expenditure is growing exponentially, unlike all social expenditure. that is, austerity is for the few and not for the large economic groups, which are increasingly benefiting from public revenues. what is needed is to protect europe against the openness that ttip proposes. it is a question of combating, not extending, an instrument which has become a cancer on our democracy.
in writing. ‒ this report attributes a whole range of 'good' qualities to public private partnerships (ppps) and considers them to be 'successful'. the reality and the various experiences in the various member states contradict these statements. ppps have contributed to the dismantling of public services and their provision to the population. they have been a determining factor in the aggravation of regional asymmetries and have compromised the democratic nature of public services. this report aims to 'export' the model of ppps in the establishment of trade policies with third countries and for this reason we voted against it.
in writing. the successive reforms of the cap over the last 20 years have reduced the regulation of agricultural markets to almost nothing. the 'liberalisation' and 'market orientation' prevailed. this approach was also followed in the fruit and vegetables sector, where instruments such as minimum prices were abandoned. this process was accompanied by a policy of strengthening producer organisations (po), with very different results in the different member states, aimed at enabling farmers to act in defence of their interests, for example by selling their production collectively or increasing surplus value through agricultural processing. the amendments we have tabled reflect the reality of the sector and the need for public policies to support producers and national production. other proposals include the inclusion of economic and social criteria to increase support for small and medium-sized agricultural production while preserving the rural environment, and the defence of local marketing and consumption networks that promote social and regional cohesion. we also proposed that agricultural products be excluded from the ttip negotiations. we regret the rejection of these amendments by the majority. nevertheless, and falling clearly short of what is needed, the report reflects some legitimate concerns, pointing out real problems and needs in the sector.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy, the commission has decided to launch a new action programme on the reform of the common agricultural policy. the own-initiative report advocates simplifying the fruit and vegetable regime, improving the management of producer organisations, increasing the overall level of support to producer organisations and making better use of crisis prevention and management tools to help farmers protect themselves against large falls in incomes. i believe that increasing the organisation fee should remain a priority for the fruit and vegetable regime. it is also important to provide producer organisations with funds to hire capable managers, to continue to support all sectors suffering from the consequences of the russian embargo, to step up efforts to protect farmers from unfair trading practices by large retailers and to generationalise agriculture.
‒ this report on the fruit and vegetables (fph) scheme identifies a decline in the consumption of fph in the union, aggravated by the economic crisis. at the same time, the union has a trade deficit in hfp, in particular in fruit. in response to the liberalisation of the common agricultural policy, the union has implemented measures to create and strengthen producer organisations (po) and associations of producer organisations (paos). the number of pos and poa varies considerably between member states, so this paper calls for more incentives from the commission. reducing complexity and legal uncertainty are other elements that will make the ops and ppas more attractive, as well as creating more funds and operational programmes for investment in human capital, for the management, promotion, marketing and internationalisation of the ops. at the same time, the commission must do more to protect farmers from unfair trading practices by large retailers. this effort should be coordinated at union level and not lead to national protectionist measures. for the reasons i have outlined, i am in favour of adopting this own-initiative report.
‒ the commission presented a report in march 2014 on the implementation of the new rules of the fruit and vegetables regime (fph) to identify progress made while also highlighting existing problems. the rules of the pgi scheme establish a key vector aimed at the creation and development of producer organisations (po) in order to ensure production planning and promote concentration of supply and placing products on the market. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the implementation of the eu's external borders. the rapporteur believes that the solution to this problem lies in reducing the complexity of the current system. the rapporteur considers that, although operational programmes provide a modest leverage of the po's bargaining power in the distribution chain, the latter remains highly concentrated in the hands of retailers. the obvious solution is to increase cap support for the sector, which translates into an improvement in the 'human capital' of the op and, consequently, in a better supply of fruit and vegetables.
‒ this report analyses the situation in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform and makes a number of recommendations to improve the current regime and protect farmers. support the simplification of the hff regime, the improvement of the management of producer organisations, the increase of the overall level of support to producer organisations and a better use of crisis prevention and management tools to help farmers protect themselves against large falls in incomes. i welcome the adoption of this report which also stresses the need to step up efforts to protect farmers against unfair trading practices by large retailers.
‒ portugal is a country rich in the diversity and quality of fruit and vegetables, and i welcome the proposal to simplify the system in this sector by improving the management of producer organisations, increasing the level of support to these organisations and making more effective use of crisis prevention and management instruments to protect producers from sharp falls in their incomes.
‒ this own-initiative report is the result of the european parliament's assessment of the commission's report on the implementation of the policy on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. eu policy in this sector has strengthened the role of producer organisations (po) to boost competitiveness, increase productivity, support research and innovation, improve promotion and marketing, prevent and manage market crises, improve the position of producers in the agri-food chain and encourage environmentally friendly practices. i agree with the rapporteur that the arrangements for fruit and vegetables need to be simplified, that the management of producer organisations needs to be improved, that the overall level of support for producer organisations needs to be increased, that crisis prevention and management instruments need to be better used to help farmers protect themselves against large and sharp falls in their incomes, and that the commission needs to step up its efforts to combat unfair trading practices by large retailers. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the organisation of production in the fruit and vegetables sector is essential to improve the trading position of producers vis-à-vis distribution and to integrate the process of adding value to products. this is particularly important in a context where the market is becoming less regulated and more vulnerable to crises caused by price or disease and pests. european incentives should be consistent with the aim of promoting producer organisations (po) and associations of po, thus enabling the role of producers to be strengthened, who are often placed in less favourable situations because of the need to dispose of their highly perishable products quickly. i support this report which sets these issues straight.
in writing. - the situation is paradoxical once again. we have a decline in the agricultural area used for fruit and vegetable production. we have a consumption that continues to fall and that is below the world health organization recommendations. we have a model in place where the big multinational food companies now determine the diet of our young people. producer organisations are key. the degree of organization has been increasing, but the picture varies greatly from country to country. we therefore continue to advocate greater flexibility in their recognition, depending on the specific situation of each region. more support is also needed, as is the extension of eligible expenditure to create conditions for sustainability. however, it is worth noting that we cannot entertain the illusion that it will be possible, with more ppps, to deal with the serious problems of the sector and, for example, the field of large-scale distribution. we are still very wary of this trend towards complete liberalization of the cap, which is still based on market solutions that will not bring any good to our farmers.
‒ we denounce that the decline in fruit and vegetable consumption in countries with austerity policies has led to the adoption of unhealthy diets that are low in essential nutrients by households. we are in favour of promoting traditional diets based on seasonal vegetables and fruits, we are against the limited use of funds by producer organisations, against the closure of farms which lead to the desertification of large areas of land, we are in favour of including criteria of economic and social value for small and medium-sized agricultural production, we are in favour of preserving the rural environment and we are in favour of local marketing and consumption networks which promote social and regional cohesion. we propose that agricultural products be excluded from the ttip negotiations. the report reflects some of our concerns and we have followed its analysis of the sector, its needs and the problems it has been facing since 2007.
in the difficult times that several countries of the european union and its peoples are going through, dramatic times that threaten not only the daily lives of people and workers but also the future development of the countries themselves, it is urgent and essential to break with the policies of the european union which, in the view of our group, are subordinated to the interests of big economic and financial capital. that is why in the resolution we are going to table and in the amendments we are going to table we refuse to allow the debt to continue to be the pretext for imposing austerity measures and we propose renegotiating it, including reducing and restructuring it, so that the debt in the various countries reaches sustainable levels, does not stifle the development possibilities of the countries and is simply payable. that is why we have proposed the repeal of the stability pact and the budgetary treaty, as well as the legislation on economic governance, giving countries back the possibility of having a budgetary policy according to their different needs. we therefore propose that the stability and growth pact be replaced by another pact, a pact for development and employment, which benefits all countries, and we call for an intergovernmental conference to abolish the budgetary treaty. we therefore call for a major change in the statutes and mandate of the european central bank to ensure that the member states exercise political and democratic control over it on an equal footing. we therefore believe that it is necessary to give back to the member states the power to decide on matters as fundamental to the development of countries as monetary policy. that is why we are in favour of repealing the banking union legislation and of ensuring public and democratic control over the banking system. it is clear that when policies do not serve the interests of the people and the workers they must be changed. only those who understand that politics is not there to serve people but other interests resist this basic logic. in the proposals we are putting forward we are giving every member of this parliament the opportunity to make it clear which side they are on.
madam president, good work by the sergio, good work by the juri committee and good work by this parliament if the cofferati report is adopted, which will greatly strengthen the efforts of the tax authorities, the police, the judiciary, journalists and citizens to detect and combat aggressive tax planning and the tax evasion and corruption that it fuels. it is urgent to stop the tax jungle in the european union that the luxleaks and swissleaks scandals have exposed and that seriously harms the european project and also other countries, especially developing countries. this is too important a matter to be left solely in the hands of tax administrations, often deprived of resources and investment due to disastrous austerity policies, in the face of multinationals who have been fighting european legislation that requires, precisely, the publication of their country-by-country accounts. it is urgent that this transparency standard be extended to all multinational companies in all sectors.
madam president, this directive aims to ensure the best possible involvement of shareholders in company decisions. i identify a certain short-sightedness on the part of company management, which is too focused on short-term profitability, even questioning the long-term sustainability of the company itself. however, this directive is paradoxical because it ignores or pretends to ignore that it is precisely the shareholders who want short-term profits, as is moreover completely identified in the subject of the conflict between the principal and the agent. in this sense, apart from not ensuring shareholder involvement, since shareholders are completely sprayed through the investment funds, this directive puts the question on the other side. the solution to align company decisions with long-term sustainable management and, at the same time, ensure fiscal transparency is to involve local workers and agents in the strategic decisions of companies, as we have suggested.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr belet, mr la via and also my colleague mr gerbrandy for the excellent work they have done on this document. the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme is the most important instrument to combat climate change emissions. it is therefore essential to restore the full performance of this instrument which, due to the economic slowdown and the excess liquidity of allowances that occurred on the market, no longer provided the appropriate final price to limit emissions. economic incentives need to be in favour of the transition to a clean economy, not against it. i therefore believe that this reform is essential to correct the present imbalance. the outcome of the negotiations on this legislative proposal will allow for a more stable and predictable market environment, more environmentally friendly and more investment-friendly in green technologies. i hope that the european commission, commissioner, will now work towards proposing, before 2020, an innovation fund to promote research and development in low-carbon technologies. the future is built by betting today on the technologies of tomorrow. expresses satisfaction that the stabilisation reserve of the allowances market will be operational earlier than initially proposed by the commission for 2021, i.e. as early as 2019. fellow citizens, the planet thanks you. it will also be positive to put 900 million carbon allowances, which have been deferred, directly into the market stabilisation reserve to prevent them from once again causing a fall in their market price. the fact that we can pass this legislative proposal tomorrow is also a signal to our external partners that the european union continues to take the fight against climate change seriously. commissioner, we cannot forget the urgent need to reach a legally binding global climate agreement in paris this year. we must not forget, commissioner, that it is our responsibility as europeans to lead this process. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your willingness to work towards this end. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. madam president, i would like to ask a question to mr faria, who said that the carbon market is the main instrument to combat climate change. i wanted you to give me here examples of places and times where the carbon market has ever worked to promote, lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. it says here he stopped giving the price sign: i would like to ask the commissioner to tell me in what period, namely the european union's emissions trading scheme, in what period he provided this price signal to lead to the reduction of carbon emissions. secondly, in view of the failure of this mechanism, is it possible to consider other types of instruments?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. madam president, once again the position of the far left is clear on this instrument. i think that this instrument is indeed a full access instrument for reducing climate emissions and i do not see what other response could be given here than to continue to fight for this emission of greenhouse gases to be done through this important instrument. i think that's what we're here to do and to treat.
mr president, commissioner, there are questions that the proponents of the carbon market simply cannot answer. what structural changes have been achieved so far with recourse to market instruments such as emissions trading? none of them. what are the alternatives to a market approach? we saw zero here today. the carbon market has already proven to be inefficient and perverse, has provided fabulous profits to large polluters, has shown itself to be permeable to countless failures and frauds, some of which have damaged the public purse by billions of euros. in the face of the evidence of failure, the solution is not to change something so that everything remains the same, as advocates of market solutions advocate. the solution is to change from a regulatory and normative approach to one that is effective, environmentally sound and socially just.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president, commissioner georgieva, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth recalling that the budget of the european union is a small budget: it is about 1% of gross national income and corresponds to just over eur 140 billion in payments, in a european union which has been steadily increasing its powers and which has also expanded in terms of the member states. the budget of the european union, which, if we want to compare it with that of the united states, is 1% of gross national income, while that of the united states is about 20% of gdp. but it is a budget with a high added value, i would even say a huge added value, given that 94% of the budget is for investment and only 6% of this budget corresponds to administrative and operating expenditure. and it is a budget that in many member states represents more than 50% of public investment. a budget also for which we have set priorities for 2016. what we have called the three e's: employment, enterprises, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, and entrepreneurship. this has implications for programmes, starting with the youth employment initiative. we know that there was an advance of 6 billion euros for 2014 and 2015, but we in 2016 want this programme to continue and therefore we want authorisation expenditure for this programme. it is clear that programmes such as cosmos, programmes such as horizon 2020 or the connecting europe facility, also those contributors, who are in heading 1-a, should be given special attention, but we must not forget internal solidarity. in the internal solidarity, we have cohesion policy which also helps employment, also helps entrepreneurship, innovation and research. in this cohesion policy, in addition to this objective and all the objectives inherent in it, we must never forget the objective of matching internal solidarity by helping the poorest regions, the member states in greatest difficulty and also by helping people to achieve their social aspirations. internal solidarity is also a goal for us. as regards external solidarity, we cannot forget what is happening in the european union, what is happening in ukraine, in syria, but also what is happening with refugees, what is happening in the mediterranean, and in this sense heading 3 and heading 4 are also very important for us in these areas. and that is also why we say that the cuts made to the agencies cannot be blind cuts. we also have to, when we look at a cut in terms of staff, to look at the consequences of that cut, the costs that it has. we have financial oversight agencies where if we cut staff, it's going to cost money. we have immigration agencies, for example, where if we reduce staff, it has a cost that is greater than the cost of the reduction itself. we also demand that the commitments be respected, that the plan we have defined in terms of payments be respected, that the multiannual financial framework be respected, that the flexibility we want and ask for be respected. and we hope that the council will respect its commitments, that it will be consistent with the declarations and declarations it has made, and that it will also provide sufficient funds for the aspirations and the objectives we all have in mind. i would like to thank all the other shadow rapporteurs and all the political groups who have contributed to this report and to this mandate in which parliament intends to be very strong and very united.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for all her work and constructive attitude, and i would like to thank all the colleagues who are involved in the construction of the european union budget in this mandate for the trilogue. i would like to say that we in parliament will live up to our responsibilities. i am sure the commission will too. we are consistent, ambitious but rigorous, and i expect the council to do the same. i expect the council to be consistent, and it is not always consistent. it is clear that we all know that unanimity is required to approve the multiannual financial framework, and then there are member states which, in turn, vote against budgets which are in line with that same multiannual financial framework and sometimes even below that multiannual financial framework. this is not coherence. unfortunately, we have member states in the european union that consistently vote against all the budgets of the european union, often without the public being aware of it. we shall be demanding that the commitments be honoured. we want flexibility and it is at the expense of or because of flexibility that we have adopted the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which is lower than the 2007-2013 one. and flexibility means using the flexibility instruments, using the margins of previous years that were not used, and we will need them because we maintain the objective we set for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. we will continue to minimise, as far as possible, the impact that the strategic investment fund has on these two programmes. i think we all agree on one objective: growth, employment, internal solidarity, external solidarity, security, and that is why i expect a massive vote on this report for the mandate.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. colleagues, after claude moraes, many people remembered that it has been ten years since the london attacks and six months since the attack on charlie hebdo. outside the european union, i would like to recall the recent attacks in egypt, nigeria and libya. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the adoption of the european agenda for security 2015-2020, which does not ignore this link between internal security and the external security of the union. i would like to stress two points which i consider crucial. the first is that we must continue to encourage mutual trust between member states. rather than multiplying the measures that are already in place or that have received a great deal of media coverage, we need to use the full potential of the measures and instruments that are already in place, making adjustments where necessary. the schengen information system and the new schengen evaluation mechanism are good examples. it is clear that we need more europe, and the union agencies, starting with europol and frontex, need to have a legal mandate, human and financial resources to be able to play their growing role effectively, as mr boni has just reminded us. i leave you with two questions. is the european commission ready to take on its new role in monitoring the schengen acquis? how do you intend to cooperate with parliament? is the council really prepared to give the european agencies a more important role in the field of internal security? mr president, over the last 15 years the union has developed and implemented a strategy to combat terrorism. we must be able to act and adapt to the times, but we cannot give in to either outmoded nationalism or security-minded populism.
madam president, the issues at stake at the addis ababa conference on financing for development, which is due to begin in a few days, are very important. and that is: to ensure that sufficient resources are mobilised to implement the global development agenda 2015 to 2030. that is why it is essential that the international community reaches an ambitious agreement in addis ababa. the european parliament has already clearly defined its position, including in favour of a target of 0.7% of gni for development aid, and also in favour of a timetable. and we all know how unfortunately the council's position fell short of what this house wanted. but the preparatory work for the addis conference shows an even more worrying picture, with other partners and donors showing even less willingness to make concrete financial commitments. the time is therefore ripe for a strong appeal to the other developed countries and the emerging economies to shoulder their responsibilities. and in this case, that means making concrete financial commitments. that is why we need the addis conference to be the conference of responsibility for public aid, but also for fiscal cooperation. and that is why we must support the report by our colleague elly schlein on international tax cooperation.
madam president, i should like to inform mr tsipras that i am speaking on behalf of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, and as he knows, we really want greece to remain in the eurozone and we want a fair deal for greece. mr tsipras knows very well that this is our position. but what is a fair deal for greece? this deserves a political discussion. that is why we need to create a political governance of the eurozone. important steps have been taken in recent weeks in this regard, and we are now having regular meetings at the eurozone summits. this is a very important development. the commission is coming with proposals to these eurozone summits. this is also a very important development. and now the european parliament has a role to play, because the european parliament is the parliament of the euro. that is why the president of the european parliament should also be represented in these discussions and bring our message to these discussions. but let us use this opportunity today to discuss exactly what a fair deal is, because what is at stake is whether we can reconcile the euro with democracy. is it possible? mr tsipras, you come with a strong mandate from your country; you have just won a referendum. but other prime ministers can also argue that they have a strong democratic mandate, and we here also have a strong democratic mandate. therefore, we need to find a way to draw up a new compromise in democratic terms: a real european compromise. that is why this discussion today is so important. my question to mr tsipras, but also to my colleagues in the european parliament, is: can we accept a fair deal with a real opportunity for recovery in greece, a real opportunity to invest, with more fiscal space, but also a clear solution for the debt burden in greece in exchange for clear commitments for reform, ensuring good public administration, tax collection and a sustainable pension system? do you think these are terms for a fair deal? i think they are. (applause)
madam president, mr president of the commission, what we see in the overwhelming majority of the faces here is the image of defeat. the contempt for democracy, the blackmail, the pressures and the threats have been defeated by the greek people. the alliance of arrogance and fear which they seek to impose on the peoples of europe has suffered a heavy defeat. the greek people have vigorously rejected the dictates and impositions of the european union and its leaders. and yes, this was a heavy defeat for the european union and for those who run it. from here we tell you, they tried everything and they will try everything, but from here we tell you, the political terrorism you are engaged in only shows your weakness. what reality shows us is that the instruments of domination of the european union, from the euro to the budgetary treaty, are contrary to the development, progress and sovereignty of the peoples. what reality and history show us is that it is the path of resistance and struggle, not that of submission and subordination, that defends the rights and interests of the peoples.
mr president, first i would like to confront mr pittella and mr gualtieri. the pair of them criticised our leader, mr weber. but i would like to know if their statements are in line with those of mr schulz, mr dijsselbloem or even prime minister renzi last weekend. they completely contradict everything that we have said here. now, prime minister tsipras, i would like to ask you five or six precise questions, because i know that you like rhetoric and philosophy but not precise proposals and not concrete questions. why have you extended the negotiations to the edge, to the limit? why have you held a referendum only now? if you wanted to have a referendum, you were completely free to do so. why did you not do it before? we would have had time to negotiate after that. why have you not reduced and changed the fiscal system? why have you not taxed ship owners, the orthodox church, or the rich? you have had six months to do so, and you have not done it until now. why have you let all the capital leave athens and greece? now your banks are in this situation, but it was your policies and your rhetoric that made the greeks take their money out of greek banks. you did not create trust in your own country. i would also ask you why you did not reduce expenditure on the military, the army and defence: that would also be an alternative to resolve your problems. finally, i would ask you this: you are totally sovereign in the definition of your external policy, but when you are allied with right-wing radicals, and when you visit putin every month, you are sending a signal to the markets and you are sending a signal to the pro-european camp and the european union. you are responsible for the signals you are sending to us.
mr president, by sunday europe must make historic decisions, it must decide whether it has a future or whether it will die in greece. we've been stuck for five years with a schedule that doesn't work. and it doesn't work, mr weber, because you can't pay off debts with economies forced into recession, and in austerity, no, there are no success stories. in the eyes of the world and in the eyes of the citizens, the european union is falling apart because europe is apparently unable to solve a problem worth just over or just under 2% of its wealth. is this the image europe gives to a world that looks at it all the time? but solving greece's problem is not a technical issue - the technical solutions are there. it is a matter of political will, on a common agenda which also includes filling gaps identified in the architecture of monetary union, such as the joint management of at least part of sovereign debts. it is a question of policy and it is a question of method and of trust. and on the method, president tusk, i would like to ask you if you think it is possible to find solutions between the different legitimacies of different parliaments did we not find a solution to this problem in 1957? the solution was the community method. that is the element that is missing from this agenda, and that is why you have to turn to the commission and to this parliament to help you solve the problem. the second issue is the issue of trust, and on that, mr tsipras, i do not blame you for what was done five years ago or over the last five years, because you have only been there for five weeks. mr tsipras, i am speaking to you! you have been accused in this parliament of having developed a hidden agenda to get greece out of the euro without being blamed for it. can you assure this parliament that you will do whatever it takes to make the greek economy viable in order to remain in the euro? this is a crucial question for trust. (applause from the left)
in writing. what is happening in greece is certainly something that should concern us, not only as portuguese but also as european citizens. the situation we have reached can only be attributed to the way in which the greek government has decided to conduct the negotiations. the europeans and their governments cannot ignore what has happened so far, but they cannot forget the spirit of compromise which must always guide the european negotiating process. it is therefore imperative that the greek government should now put forward concrete measures which, while not ignoring the critical situation in which its people find themselves, will enable the greek economy and finance to undergo the much-needed reforms. this is also the only way to regain the confidence of our european partners. we must be prepared for all scenarios, but i have no doubt that it would be very bad for the european project, for the greeks and for each of the european peoples if the euro zone lost one of its members.
in writing. at the time of his inauguration, the prime minister of greece stated emphatically that he did not agree with the terms of the international aid that had been granted to him. over the last six months of government, alexis tsipras wanted to renegotiate these terms of the agreement without presenting solutions that would be accepted by the creditors. both the european commission and the finance ministers and heads of state and government of the other 18 eurozone economies have tried to support and help greece find new solutions to meet its international commitments, including making available a european investment package of around €35 billion. i believe it is time for alexis tsipras to commit himself to staying in the euro zone, to implement the structural reforms so necessary to increase the competitiveness of the greek economy and job creation, and to stand with his european partners to the detriment of russia, venezuela or china.
mr president, the expansion of terrorist organizations in north africa is primarily aimed at undermining the democracy that is being built in tunisia. the cowardly massacres at the bardo museum and now at sousse beach, in which a portuguese woman was killed, show how the threats of terrorism, violent extremism and organised crime know no borders, interconnect and find recruits thanks to unemployment and social and economic exclusion which europe itself, with its recessionary policies, unfortunately tends to create in its neighbourhood. the european union has a special responsibility to organise itself to fight the islamic state and is not doing so effectively in iraq and syria. more closely, in libya and tunisia, europe must act, by supporting tunisia, its democratically elected government, in economic development and job creation to give its young people a future, as well as in strengthening internal, maritime and border security. stopping the spread of terrorism also means that the european union must open up legal and safe channels for migrants and refugees, the only way to avoid strengthening the networks of traffickers who are about to be used by terrorists, targeting european citizens today, sooner or later to strike european territory. solidarity in helping tunisia to strengthen its economic and democratic security is also fundamental to the security of europe itself.
in writing. tunisia has suffered a terrible terrorist attack that took the lives of 38 tourists in the coastal city of sousse. much has been said about the tunisian exception in the aftermath of the arab spring. however, despite progress in policy, the economy continues to deteriorate and most young people remain without prospects of employment and a better future. the tunisian democracy needs europe's help more than ever. but europe also needs tunisia: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we have heard from several european leaders that, in addition to welcoming migrants from the maghreb and the levant, the causes of migration must be tackled in their countries of origin by promoting social and economic development. the diagnosis is correct europe can start applying the remedy in tunisia.
the european union and cuba must develop a strong strategic partnership, a partnership based on development cooperation, economic and trade relations and political dialogue. some ask: what does the eu have, what does the european union have to offer that can promote this opening of cuba to democratic values? we have, i would say in the difficult times we are going through, we still have and we want to continue to have a humanistic and people-centered development model, a model that combines social concerns and public service, something that cuba values, with the freedom of expression of civil society, individuals and institutions. we have the possibility of including cuba in the european system of trade preferences in order to encourage full respect for workers' rights and dialogue on human rights, but we need to act quickly, commissioner. it is urgent to repeal the european common position on cuba, an old, outdated position which limits the doors open to us for a constructive dialogue which has an impact not only on relations with cuba but also on the dialogue with latin america and central america, a dialogue so important for the sustainable development of globalisation and the planet. it is urgent to promote a profound dialogue with cuban civil society and its institutions, without compromising on values but also without prejudice or atavism in attitude. i express, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, our support and encouragement for the efforts of the high representative in this regard. we must be active partners in cuba's journey towards an inclusive, open democracy that creates the natural environment for free debate and the guarantee of fundamental freedoms. all this combined with sustainable development and the level of universal access to services that cuba offers is one of the best examples of the european social model. we must build bridges to a better world. in the troubled times we live in, this is an extraordinary challenge and it is a challenge we have an obligation to overcome.
mr president, the negotiations between the european union and cuba for the conclusion of a dialogue agreement are indeed positive. however, we believe that this agreement can only succeed if there is a de facto end to the european policy of interference in cuba's internal affairs. we do not see, for example, in this dialogue agreement the cuban government demanding from the european union that all people have the right to employment, health and quality education free of charge for all, as happens, for example, in cuba and not in the european union. we therefore hope that the dialogue will be conducted on a basis of reciprocity and cooperation and that it will be non-discriminatory. this should be the european union's position: respect for the self-determination of peoples and the charter of the united nations. with regard to the european union's common position on cuba, which has been hanging over the negotiations, i would like to ask the european commission whether it does not consider that a policy based on equality does not in fact presuppose, in the negotiating process, the immediate withdrawal of this common position on cuba.
yemen is very close to uncontrollable sectarian conflict and the international community, in particular the european union, must intensify diplomatic efforts to bring about a cessation of hostilities. the price to pay if we do not act is chaos, unbearable human suffering, the destruction of world heritage and the contagion of violence to neighboring countries throughout the middle east region. we cannot stand by and watch the conflict in yemen give rise to the advance of terrorist groups in the region, such as the islamic state or al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula, facilitated by the saudi offensive which, in addition to indiscriminately punishing the civilian population in yemen, is blocking humanitarian access to the country, leaving thousands to starve and despair. that is why the european union must demand the lifting of the naval embargo imposed by saudi arabia and support the diplomatic efforts of the un and oman in seeking a truce leading to a peace agreement. at the same time, mrs mogherini must demand that the member states fulfil their obligations under international law and the european rules themselves as regards the export of arms and military equipment to countries which use them for repression and violence against civilians, as is unfortunately the case with saudi arabia.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the author on the quality of his report and, above all, on the clear vision he has of the middle east and north africa which can be produced from europe. firstly, there is a clear rejection of the clash of civilizations theory, of the confrontation between a supposedly western essence and an essence of the islamic world, which are homogeneous and are doomed to clash. on the contrary, there is a very clear understanding of the complexity of the situation in north africa and the middle east. it is a historical reality of extreme complexity and marked by deep divisions - political divisions, religious divisions, cultural divisions, social and economic divisions - which have led to a somewhat chaotic situation in the whole region today. and what should be europe's reaction to this neighbouring region? the reaction must always be put on the political and diplomatic plane. and i think that is where the secret of our intervention has to be, and it is well placed in the report. turning this into a question essentially on the political level. the report deals with some of the most important issues: the conflict between israel and palestine, the question of the negotiations under way to resolve the iranian nuclear issue, the call for the european union itself to make a political contribution to improving relations between iran and saudi arabia, to overcome a conflict which is now a structural conflict in the whole region. it takes a very serious and realistic approach to what is today one of the biggest challenges that we are facing in that area, which is the challenge of terrorism, and it makes an assessment without any kind of contemplation. there are several answers to be given and none of them can be excluded, because they must, in fact, be articulated with each other. and i would like to focus, finally, on an issue which the previous speaker focused on, which is the question of tunisia. tunisia today is a special country in that region. it was in tunisia, as we know, that the arab spring began. it is very easy today to dispute the arab spring and even to suggest that these countries are not really prepared to build a state governed by the rule of law and a genuine democratic regime and that the arab spring has only increased conflict and chaos in the region. but the truth is that we cannot, as europeans who are faithful to a certain set of values, remain insensitive to those who in those countries are rightly fighting for the construction of a state of law, for the separation of the public and the private spheres in religious matters, for the preservation of freedoms, for the building of a true democracy. it was in tunisia that the arab spring began, and tunisia is the example, so far the only successful example, of that same arab spring. and unfortunately, she's been attacked for it. the recent attack there is an attack not only on the tunisian people, but on the demand for the establishment of a democratic state based on the rule of law in the whole region. and the european union has an additional duty of solidarity towards tunisia. tunisia has expressed this desire, has called for greater cooperation, and we must live up to our responsibilities. it is a neighbour, and it is a neighbour which at the moment means much more than its own historical and geographical dimension and therefore deserves special attention from the european union.
mr president, there is a portuguese proverb in my country which says: whoever wants to harm his neighbour, his neighbour will come along the way. in other words, when we harm our neighbors, we suffer the consequences. and indeed, the european union cannot be considered a desirable neighbour for anyone. because a neighbor who looks at another from the perspective of his own self-interest cannot be a good neighbor. as one would expect, this report advocates strengthening the association between the european union's neighbourhood policy and the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy. the perspective of this policy is increasingly military intervention. curiously, and i quote, "in the name of a more active role in the peaceful resolution of the ongoing conflicts". the european union's military intervention and its interventionist interventions are the cause of so many ongoing conflicts. or were it not the countries of the european union that provided the so-called free syrian army with war material and support and funding, when we remember in this parliament saying in hysteria that everything must be done, everything, to bring down assad? that is precisely the support that created the monster now known as the islamic state, a terrorist threat to those countries, but also to the countries of the european union. or was it not also the european union's valuable help to the libyan people to bring down the regime, through an external armed intervention, which ended not only the lives of many libyans but also the stability of the country, which created a non-state dominated by lawless mercenaries in the most atrocious chaos and violence? or was it not the european union's latest aid to the ukrainian people through instigating the conflict that has caused the division of a country? a neighbourhood policy that had a real interest in the other created conditions for the other to develop. in these countries it will certainly be thought that with neighbours like these, it is better to be alone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, given the scale of the tragedy in srebrenica 20 years ago, we must today have the courage to say that there are no innocents. the only innocent people were the victims and their families. and as is always the case in these kinds of situations, the international community has been slow to recognize the crime and slow to act. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the victims of the massacre are not killed. the impunity of the perpetrators prolongs the most harmful effects of this crime, which is impunity. the international community must therefore punish the perpetrators of this crime, because only then can the victims of this crime be restored to peace.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the rapporteur's work and i congratulate her on it. i will personally support amendment no 46 tabled by my colleague marietje schaake. i can only accept limits on freedom of panorama that come from the state itself for reasons of security or national defence, never on the basis of copyright. what is public is democratic, it belongs to everyone, and cannot be restricted on the basis of private rights. i also believe that it is an abuse of rights to try to limit freedom of panorama on the basis of copyright, because it is to protect copyright beyond the limits imposed by the social and economic purposes of the law itself and the principles of good faith. what is really protected by copyright? what right does the author have to prevent someone from photographing a monument that is on the public road? so unless the photos are taken to make illustrated postcards and market them, then yes... (the president cut the speaker off)
‒ the eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership is a key element in reaching a win-win agreement for both blocs, providing an opportunity to cement commonly shared principles and values and establish a common vision and regulatory framework for trade, investment and related global issues. the complexity, interest and volume of opinions on the agreement, together with a negotiating process that was not always transparent, made it difficult for the ep to reach a common position. i support the lange report because i consider it to be balanced and expresses a set of concerns and recommendations which should be taken into account in the negotiating process. the only agreement that is good for europe is one that combines reciprocal access to markets and the reduction of barriers with respect for european norms and standards, without jeopardizing the quality of public services, respect for environmental standards, health, social protection, data protection, consumer protection and food safety. i welcome the agreement reached to replace the system of investor-state dispute settlement with a new system subject to democratic principles and control.
‒ this report is the first official position taken by the european parliament on the negotiations of the so-called transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the aim of ttip is to create even greater pressure on employment and wages by levelling down social and labour rights. the interests and profits of monopolies and transnational corporations are being placed above the public interest and respect for economic, social and labour rights, in particular by creating specific judicial mechanisms to safeguard these interests, limiting the sovereignty of states and, consequently, distorting democracy itself. overriding environmental sustainability and the safeguarding of public health, the search for new markets at any cost and enabling the advance of the market on the social functions of the states, destroying what remains of important public services. obviously, we voted against it. these are not manoeuvres which are designed, in response to public pressure, to ensure that something changes so that everything stays the same, which will alter the core and objectives of this treaty. only its rejection will secure the interests and rights of the peoples. the alternative is regulated trade, based on complementary rather than competitive relations between countries, producers and products, which respects and safeguards national sovereignty.
‒ i voted against this report because i believe that these recommendations do not safeguard the rights and interests of european citizens and call into question public services, democracy and sovereignty. the amendment on isds (state-investor dispute settlement) which has been adopted is nothing but a scheme to camouflage another form of isds and thus say that private arbitration has been put to an end, which is nothing but an attempt to manipulate public opinion. with the new isds, companies and multinationals will continue to have a veto over the legislative capacity of states, which is an attack on democracy that we cannot allow.
‒ this report contains the recommendations to the eu executive who is negotiating the agreement with the us partners on behalf of the eu. it aims to take stock of the eu-us talks since july 2013, indicating the european parliament's position on certain key issues. it has become clear that the eu-us trade and investment agreement should increase access to the us market, but without compromising eu standards or the right to regulate in the public interest. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the european union and the united states of america are natural allies, historically cooperating in a number of thematic areas, ranging from the fight against terrorism to the promotion of human rights, freedom and democracy in third countries, and the dynamisation of trade relations. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is of the utmost importance to both geographical blocks, as it aims to create a single market for trade and services, regulate the rules of world trade and eliminate remaining barriers and tariffs. in economic terms, the future creation of a market of 800 million citizens and the fact that trade contributes to the leverage of european gdp by 0.5% and that of the united states by 0.4% should be emphasized. i am fully in favour of this new transatlantic agreement which could put portugal and, in particular, the autonomous region of madeira, at the geostrategic centre of world trade.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of human rights, the european union is proposing to extend the scope of the convention to include the rights of minorities. i voted in favour of this report because it does not compromise the quality of public services and also insists on respect for environmental standards, health, social protection, data protection, consumer protection and food safety. i support a new mechanism for resolving disputes between investors and the reformed state, which is fully public and transparent, with impartial professional judges. portugal will be one of the first countries to benefit from ttip as national strategic sectors (such as footwear and textiles) face higher customs duties. as for my region, the autonomous region of the azores, gdp in the archipelago would increase by 0.35%, according to a study by the centre for economic policy research (cepr).
in writing. ‒ i am not comfortable with everything that will be included in this transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement (ttip). the negotiation process should be more transparent. globalisation needs rules, but it needs to be safeguarded by workers' rights, public services, environmental rights, cultural diversity, data protection or a public court-based dispute settlement that guarantees equal rights for domestic and foreign investors. these are some of the points that cannot be negotiated. ttip cannot mean a compromise on the eu's social and moral standards, but must instead translate into more benefits for european citizens and businesses. it is clear that this was not a vote on ttip, but an attempt to show the commission the importance of including the european parliament's viewpoint and the s&d group's contributions.
in writing. ‒ in july 2013, the eu and the us launched negotiations for a comprehensive, ambitious, balanced and binding trade and investment agreement that would strengthen transatlantic ties from a regulatory, economic, financial and even geopolitical perspective. this resolution sets out a set of recommendations from the european parliament to the european commission on the negotiations of the 'transatlantic trade and investment partnership' (ttip) on the various chapters of the mandate: free market access for goods, services and investment, the elimination of non-tariff and regulatory barriers, access to public markets, the need to protect our geographical indications and the liberalisation of the energy market. after a record number of amendments tabled, lengthy debates and concessions on isds, an overall text was reached, reflecting the balanced and majority position of the european parliament. on a national level, i am sure that this agreement will bring a unique set of advantages and opportunities, especially in terms of exports and job creation, which will allow us to leverage various sectors of our economy, generating wealth and economic growth.
‒ the negotiations for a transatlantic partnership with the united states must be consistent with the policies of europe and its member states. the best levels of social, health and environmental protection should be the reference for progress in the talks between the parties, not the lowest common denominator. the farmers of the european union cannot be used as bargaining chips for the benefit of other sectors and it is therefore necessary to establish tariff quotas which represent adequate protection in this area. the protection of quality designations of european agricultural products, such as geographical indications, and european phytosanitary standards should also be ensured. the safeguard clause and an appropriate arbitration mechanism are also important.
in the light of the recent developments in the eu, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the free movement of goods and services. this addresses the concerns of many citizens, including respect for high standards of protection of social and labour rights, the environment, food safety and consumer rights; the defence of public services of general interest (such as water, health and education); respect for the privacy of personal data; the protection of european geographical indications; the transparency of negotiations and the end of the controversial private investor-state dispute settlement (isds) system. isds has allowed abuses and has raised legitimate concerns. the text adopted therefore excludes private arbitration from the ttip negotiations, requiring an entirely new, public and transparent system with professional judges appointed by states (instead of lawyers appointed by private investors) and a recourse mechanism. this report sends a clear message to the negotiators: ttip will only be possible if these demands of parliament and the citizens are respected. it is a very important step towards a good ttip and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
‒ this agreement, which has sparked a wave of protest and outrage in various european social and economic sectors, will have very serious impacts. the consequences for agriculture will be catastrophic for both producers and consumers. from an economic point of view, the conclusion of this agreement could mean the end of our family farming production model, which is considered to be the safest and most sustainable for food production in the world. but consumers will also be hit hard. while caution prevails in europe, only substances that are clearly harmful to public health are prohibited in the united states. finally, i conclude with the dispute settlement mechanisms provided for in these agreements, which provide for the creation of private arbitration tribunals to which multinational companies can appeal, ordering national states to pay large sums of compensation if they consider that they are maintaining any useless and harmful obstacles to free competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the lange report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because i believe it is essential that there is a mandate from the european parliament to the european commission that strongly and explicitly translates the values of environmental, labour, human rights and consumer protection into the ttip negotiations. the report also makes clear recommendations on the need to abolish the system of private arbitration between states and private investors (isds) and replace it with a public, transparent and independent system where private interests cannot compromise the democracy of eu member states. the lange report also makes clear that ttip cannot be achieved at any cost and calls on the european commission to demand that the transatlantic partnership be a cornerstone in promoting european values for a fairer and more integrated globalisation.
‒ the aim of ttip is to create even greater pressure on employment and wages by levelling down social and labour rights. the adoption of this treaty implies not only the total liberalization of international trade between the two continents but also the opening to the market and competition of large sections of the so-called social functions of the state, with a view to their privatization and commodification. moreover, it is necessary to place the interests and profits of multinational companies above the public interest and respect for economic, social and labour rights, in particular by creating a dispute settlement mechanism above national legal institutions, which allows states to sue if multinational companies feel that their interests have been harmed, thus limiting the sovereignty of states and consequently distorting democracy itself. we voted against this report and will continue to demand the definitive rejection of this treaty in order to defend regulated trade, based on complementary rather than competitive relations between countries, producers and products, and on respect for and safeguarding national sovereignty.
‒ this is a technical document which seeks to include croatia, following its eu integration, as part of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu, its member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the procedure itself does not alter the existing saa in any way, but makes some adjustments to the agricultural side, in particular to the conditions governing the movement of goods and their tariff quotas. we do not, however, disregard the broader framework of the said saa signed between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, in particular particular aspects such as the creation of free trade areas, the imposition of economic, political, judicial, fiscal and public sector reforms, nor do we fail to keep in perspective the historical and political framework of this whole process (the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the role of the eu and nato powers, in particular in the conflict in the balkan region), as we have already expressed on other occasions. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ this is the ratification of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
‒ i approve this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
‒ this is the ratification of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i voted in favour of this report because it only makes the necessary adjustments to the agreement in question as a result of croatia's accession to the eu.
‒ the only thing at issue is the necessary adjustments to the agreement in view of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in order to conclude the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the protocol is updated to reflect the 2013 eu customs tariff and the phasing out of duties under the epa. the commission proposes that the council decide on the signing and provisional application of the protocol on behalf of the european union and conclude the protocol on behalf of the european union and its member states. i have no reason to object to your approval, so i have voted in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ this agreement takes into account the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (05547/2014). it therefore follows from the normal operation of the treaties and concerns the sovereign will of the peoples of these countries.
‒ this is a technical document which seeks to include croatia, following its eu integration, as part of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu, its member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the procedure itself does not alter the existing saa in any way, but makes some adjustments to the agricultural side, in particular to the conditions governing the movement of goods and their tariff quotas. we do not, however, disregard the broader framework of the said saa signed between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, in particular particular aspects such as the creation of free trade areas, the imposition of economic, political, judicial, fiscal and public sector reforms, nor do we fail to keep in perspective the historical and political framework of this whole process (the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the role of the eu and nato powers, in particular in the conflict in the balkan region), as we have already expressed on other occasions. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ this is a technical document which seeks to include croatia, following its integration into the eu, as part of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu, its member states and the republic of serbia. the procedure itself does not alter the existing saa in any way, but makes some adjustments to the agricultural side, in particular to the conditions governing the movement of goods and their tariff quotas. we do not, however, disregard the broader framework of the said saa signed between the eu and the republic of serbia, in particular particular aspects such as the creation of free trade areas, the imposition of economic, political, judicial, fiscal and public sector reforms, nor do we fail to keep in view the historical and political framework of this whole process (the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the role of the eu and nato powers, in particular in the conflict in the balkans region), already expressed on other occasions. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ this is the ratification of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
‒ i approve this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
‒ this is the ratification of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i voted in favour of this report because it only makes the necessary adjustments to the agreement in question as a result of croatia's accession to the eu.
‒ the only thing at issue is the necessary adjustments to the agreement in view of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the european union, its member states and croatia, with serbia in order to conclude the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the protocol was initialled by the commission and the government of serbia on 10 december 2013. as there are no grounds for not concluding this protocol, i have voted in favour of the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ this agreement takes into account the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (06681/2014), it therefore follows from the normal operation of the treaties and concerns the sovereign will of the peoples of these countries.
‒ this is a technical document which seeks to include croatia, following its integration into the eu, as part of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu, its member states and the republic of serbia. the procedure itself does not alter the existing saa in any way, but makes some adjustments to the agricultural side, in particular to the conditions governing the movement of goods and their tariff quotas. we do not, however, disregard the broader framework of the said saa signed between the eu and the republic of serbia, in particular particular aspects such as the creation of free trade areas, the imposition of economic, political, judicial, fiscal and public sector reforms, nor do we fail to keep in view the historical and political framework of this whole process (the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the role of the eu and nato powers, in particular in the conflict in the balkans region), already expressed on other occasions. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
in writing. - i support the buzek report on the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india. in addition to updating the legal text of the international agreement to take account of the changes resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this agreement was signed on 23 november 2001 and extended for a further five years, with a renewable period of five years. it is certainly in the interest of both the eu and india to intensify cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest, not least because scientific knowledge leads to better market access opportunities. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual added value, reciprocal access to each other's programmes and actions, non-discrimination and effective protection of intellectual property.
‒ this report proposes the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the aim is to approve the continuation and financing of the agreement, which was initially established for a period of five years, renewable by agreement between the parties and after an evaluation during the year preceding its expiry. as a cooperation agreement, it aims at developing on both sides research and technological development capacity in various fields, including other activities that may promote the dissemination and/or exploitation of results of projects and coordination activities. we voted in favour. it is positive and desirable that cooperation in these areas can be established and deepened with a view to a joint approach to important social and environmental challenges in pursuit of the public interest. unquestionable mutual benefits can result. this does not prevent, however, but rather requires particular attention to the need for a fair and equitable distribution of the results of this cooperation and its benefits, from the outset between the different member states, combating tendencies towards a marked divergence, also in this area, and between them and india.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
‒ i subscribe to this recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india was signed in new delhi on 23 november 2001 and entered into force on 14 october 2002. the agreement was for five years and could be renewed by mutual agreement between the parties after the evaluation to be carried out during the last year of each successive period. in november 2006, at the meeting of the ec-india steering committee for c&t cooperation, both parties expressed their interest in renewing the agreement. i am voting in favour of the agreement because i am in favour of a rapid renewal of the agreement for a period of five years, because it is in the interest of both parties and because it maintains continuity in the scientific and technological relations between india and the european community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. it is now more than ever in the interest of both sides not only to continue good relations in the scientific and technological fields but also to intensify this cooperation. in this connection, i support the renewal of the agreement with the government of the republic of india for a further five years.
‒ this is a simple renewal of the agreement (for another 5 years) with the government of the republic of india, and it is in the interest of both parties to continue good relations in the scientific and technological fields.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, signed in new delhi in november 2001. the agreement provides that it may be renewed by mutual agreement between the parties every five years, following an evaluation carried out during the last year of each successive period. by its decision 2009/501/ec of 19 january 2009, the council approved the renewal of the agreement for a further period of five years, until 17 may 2015. the renewal of the agreement for a further five years is objectively in the interest of the scientific and technological communities of both parties, because it allows the sharing of experience and projects. it should be noted that the assumptions and content of the agreement remain unchanged, with the exception of slight changes in terminology, due to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ as a scientist, i have been involved in scientific and technological cooperation with india and i am very much in favour of this scientific and technological cooperation agreement. however, i have two concerns to share. on the one hand, i don't think the metric for monitoring is the most efficient. you can have countless joint projects and not produce a line of science or technology products. these are the results that are sought at the end of this cooperation. so i suggest that the follow-up metrics include, in the future, the number of publications and the number of patents generated. on the other hand, i consider that the direct investment figures are very low, not reaching eur 200 000 per year. the european union must make a greater effort and be more ambitious in its cooperation with india, which is a very advanced country in terms of science and technology.
‒ this document concerns the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. it is part of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). the document was not shadowed by the gue/ngl. the report was assigned to the chairman of the itre commission in accordance with the simplified procedure without amendments under article 50 (1). the report is designed to approve the continuation and financing of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement concluded between the european community and india in november 2001. the agreement provided for a five-year period, renewable by agreement between the parties and after an evaluation during the year preceding its expiry. this cooperation agreement aims at the development on both sides of rtd (research and technological development), including other activities promoting the dissemination and/or exploitation of project results and coordination activities. we support it.
‒ this report concerns the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the report advocates the continuation and financing of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement concluded between the european community and india in november 2001. the agreement provided for a five-year period, renewable by agreement between the parties and after an evaluation during the year preceding its expiry. this cooperation agreement aims at the development on both sides of rtd (research and technological development), including other activities promoting the dissemination and/or exploitation of project results and coordination activities. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with article 7 of horizon 2020, the specific terms and conditions for the participation of the faroe islands as a country associated to horizon 2020 framework programme are laid down in an international agreement. both parties shall demonstrate an interest in encouraging reciprocal access by their respective research organisations to research and development activities in the faroe islands and to the union's framework programmes for research and technological development. the importance of the ongoing scientific and technological cooperation between the faroe islands and the union strengthens the mutual interest in strengthening research and innovation in the context of the establishment of the european research area. with this recommendation we are helping to facilitate the free movement and residence of researchers participating in the activities, as well as the cross-border movement of goods intended for those activities.
‒ this report deals with the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands. in march 2014, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on behalf of the european union with the faroe islands for an agreement associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020). the faroe islands should participate as an associated country under the terms and conditions set out in horizon 2020 and in council decision 2013/743/eu. the cooperation agreement will include regular discussions on cooperation and development prospects, regular information on the implementation of research programmes and projects, meetings and visits with exchanges of views between researchers and technicians, participation of experts in seminars, symposia and workshops. an eu-faroe research and innovation committee should be set up, which should be composed of representatives of both parties. we voted in favour. it should be noted, however, that, while we have no objections in principle to the extension of the framework programme to other countries, we continue to denounce the very uneven distribution of resources under this programme, of which, please note, portugal was a net contributor in the period 2007-2013. we continue to demand action to change this situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) (14014/2014).
in writing. ‒ horizon 2020 the community framework programme for research and innovation is the european community's largest instrument specifically geared to supporting research through the co-financing of research, innovation and demonstration projects, and has the overall objective of contributing to the creation of a knowledge-based and innovation-based economy, the creation of new job opportunities and sustainable economic growth in europe. in support of horizon 2020 cfp, which aims to ensure industrial leadership in the european union by 2020 and to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy focusing on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i approve this recommendation on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ horizon 2020 the community framework programme for research and innovation, with an overall budget of over €77 billion for the period 2014-2020, is the european community's largest instrument specifically geared to supporting research, thus stimulating the dynamisation of the economy. i have approved the conclusion of this agreement with the faroe islands because i support the establishment of a research area without frontiers, in which scientific resources will be better used to increase employment and competitiveness in europe.
in writing. ‒ agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ we are faced with a proposal for a recommendation aimed at concluding a scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands, while associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020). in addition to association with horizon 2020, cooperation may also include regular discussions on the guidelines and priorities of the research policies and plans of the faroe islands and the union, discussions on cooperation and development perspectives, visits and exchanges of researchers, engineers and technicians, participation of experts in seminars, symposia and workshops, among others. the draft agreement also lays down the conditions for the participation of the faroe islands in indirect actions and in the activities of the european commission research centre under the same conditions as those applicable to entities of the member states of the union. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
‒ horizon 2020 is a powerful tool for stimulating scientific research and, indirectly, for boosting the economy, protecting the environment and promoting the values we hold most dear in europe. the european union is devoting a lot of money to this programme and this will bring benefits in terms of competitiveness and quality of life for all. i therefore congratulate the faroe islands on becoming one of the regions benefiting from this instrument. however, i must emphasize that i am against the use of marine mammals that is being made in this territory. for this reason, i am concerned that european funds may be being used for any purpose including the persecution and killing of cetaceans. we cannot forget the sad images of the deaths that occur every year in the local communities of the faroe islands. as a corollary, i ask the european commission to be particularly careful in allocating and monitoring the use of funds under this agreement, ensuring that it does not contribute, directly or indirectly, to the death or suffering of species protected by international conventions to which it is a signatory.
in writing. ‒ on 18 march 2014, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on behalf of the european union with the faroe islands for an agreement associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 programme framework for research and innovation (2014-2020). the faroe islands should participate as an associated country under the terms and conditions set out in horizon 2020 and in council decision 2013/743/eu. the cooperation agreement will include regular discussions on cooperation and development prospects, regular information on the implementation of research programmes and projects, meetings and visits with exchange of views between researchers and technicians, participation of experts in seminars, symposia and workshops. an eu-faroese research and innovation committee should be set up, which should be composed of representatives of both parties. we think it is a positive step and we support this initiative.
‒ this document concerns the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands. on 18 march 2014, the council authorised the european commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the european union, with the faroe islands for an agreement to associate the faroe islands to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020). the faroe islands should participate as an associated country under the terms and conditions set out in horizon 2020 and in council decision 2013/743/eu. the cooperation agreement will include regular discussions on cooperation and development prospects, regular information on the implementation of research programmes and projects, meetings and visits with exchange of views between researchers and technicians, participation of experts in seminars, symposia and workshops. an eu-faroe research and innovation committee should be set up, which should be composed of representatives of both parties. we voted yes.
‒ the report proposes to improve the functioning of eu financial markets by applying rules that seek to minimise the effects of identified inefficiencies, which are mainly linked to insufficient shareholder involvement and a lack of an adequate level of transparency. the following objectives are advocated, among others: to increase the involvement of owners and asset managers in their respective joint-stock companies; to create a better link between the remuneration and performance of company directors; to increase transparency and shareholder oversight of related party transactions; to encourage a more long-term oriented perspective. we voted in favour of all the amendments calling for more transparency, shareholder identification, better information and the possibility for workers' representatives to have a vote on the remuneration policy of directors. however, the report's approach is frankly reductive. without downplaying the problem of diminished shareholder involvement or lack of adequate levels of transparency, the underlying issue is another and concerns the essence of globalised capitalism, the free movement of capital and the growing inequalities in the distribution of income. some of these aspects are simply ignored by the report. any gains from the application of the guidelines now adopted will not serve to ensure a fairer redistribution of the wealth created.
‒ this report enhances transparency by creating country-by-country reports, which require companies to provide a list of all shareholders with more than 0.5% of the company's outstanding shares, or by encouraging companies to publish the minutes of their general meetings and the results of votes on their websites, which is an important step in the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. it also includes the need to justify the bonuses paid. all these are important measures to combat tax evasion and tax havens. so i voted in favour.
‒ the overall objective of this proposal for a revision of the shareholder rights directive is to contribute to the long-term sustainability of eu companies, to create an attractive environment for shareholders and to increase the exercise of cross-border voting rights by increasing the efficiency of the equity investment chain in order to contribute to growth, job creation and competitiveness in the eu. the proposal also responds to the commitment made in the context of a renewed strategy for long-term financing of the european economy. it contributes to a more long-term shareholder perspective, which ensures better operating conditions for listed companies. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ directive 2007/36/ec of the european parliament and of the council lays down requirements for the exercise of certain shareholder rights attaching to shares with the right to vote at general meetings of companies which have their registered office in a member state and whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market situated or operating in a member state. i agree that although shareholders do not own the companies, which are separate legal entities outside their full control, they do have a relevant role in the governance of these companies. i am voting in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe that greater shareholder participation in the governance of companies is one of the instruments which can contribute to improving both the financial and non-financial performance of companies. however, and given that shareholder rights are not the only factor that can contribute to a long-term approach to corporate governance, i believe that this factor should be accompanied by additional measures to ensure greater involvement of the different actors involved, in particular workers, local authorities and civil society.
‒ this report requires large companies and public interest entities to disclose country-by-country information on profits earned, taxes paid and subsidies received. i voted in favour of this report because this proposal for a revision aims to ensure greater involvement of shareholders in the companies in which they invest and thus contribute to their long-term competitiveness and sustainability. the rules on shareholder identification, the transmission of information, reporting obligations and employee involvement are also strengthened. in addition, portugal is one of the 15 eu member states that already requires disclosure of directors' remuneration policy hence my affirmative vote . i 'm not .
‒ after luxleaks and similar cases, this report represents a good opportunity to introduce transparency in large companies and economic groups and thus combat tax evasion and fraud. in addition to greater shareholder involvement in business life, with a say in, for example, remuneration policy, the report also requires large companies and public interest entities to disclose country-by-country information on profits earned, taxes paid and subsidies received. this clarifies for citizens and competent authorities whether companies pay the taxes due where they actually carry out their economic activities.
in writing. ‒ directive 2007/36/ec of the european parliament and of the council lays down requirements for the exercise of certain shareholder rights attached to shares with voting rights at general meetings of companies which have their registered office in a member state and whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market situated or operating in a member state. although they are not the 'owners' of companies, shareholders play a significant role in the governance of these companies. however, the financial crisis has revealed that in many cases shareholders have supported excessive short-term risk-taking by managers. for this reason, greater shareholder participation in corporate governance is one of the instruments that can contribute to improving both the financial and non-financial performance of companies and that is why i support this proposal to revise directive 2007/36/ec on the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in listed companies, as i believe that this also contributes to their long-term sustainability.
‒ large companies should conduct their tax affairs in a manner consistent with the service they receive from their employees and society. there is a disproportion between the ability of a large firm to finance itself and adapt to adverse market conditions and that of an individual in the same circumstances. it is up to the public authorities to correct this disproportion by moralizing the behaviour of large companies, which are not amorphous entities after all: they are made up of individuals and for individuals. private enterprise should be promoted and rewarded, but in proportion to the creation of jobs and added value for the society in which it is embedded, and this principle should be enshrined in the relevant regulations.
‒ this directive aims to ensure better involvement of shareholders in company decisions. it identifies a certain short-sightedness on the part of company management that is too focused on short-term profitability, even calling into question the long-term sustainability of companies. however, this directive is paradoxical because it ignores or pretends to ignore that it is precisely the shareholders who want short-term profits, as is moreover completely identified in the subject of the conflict between the principal and the agent. in this sense, in addition to not ensuring shareholder involvement insofar as shareholders are completely sprayed through investment funds, this directive puts the question in reverse. the key to aligning company decisions with long-term sustainable management is to involve local workers and agents in the strategic decisions of companies. the directive puts the problem of wage differentials within the company, but again, it does not propose anything substantial to solve the problem.
in writing. ‒ the report under review relates to the amendment of directives 2007/36/ec and 2013/34/eu and proposes to improve the functioning of eu financial markets by identifying the following objectives: to increase the level and quality of the involvement of owners and asset managers in their investee companies; to create a better link between the remuneration and performance of company directors; to increase transparency and shareholder oversight of related party transactions; to ensure the reliability and quality of advisors' voting opinions; to simplify the transmission of information across the investment chain. we voted in favour of all the amendments calling for more transparency, shareholder identification, better information, and the possibility of giving workers' representatives the right to vote on the remuneration policy of directors. we believe that the problems in the financial sector are not due to a lack of shareholder involvement or an inadequate level of transparency. they are the fruit of the essence and logic of capitalism, the pursuit of higher profits. on the other hand, any gains which may result from the application of the rules now adopted will not serve to redistribute the wealth created more fairly but rather to increase the fortunes of the lords of money. we voted against it.
‒ the reform of the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change by addressing the imbalance between supply and demand for emission allowances, which undermines incentives to invest in green innovation. the estimated 2000 million surplus of allowances undermines the long-term cost-effectiveness of the scheme, making the ets not work as originally intended, and the commission has proposed (and rightly so) a market stabilisation reserve which introduces rules in the ests directive to govern market fluctuations and the supply of allowances. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the climate change impact of the proposed measures. i therefore support the belet report, which reflects the commitment reached with member states after three trilogues, providing that if the surplus reaches a certain value, licences are withdrawn from the market and placed in a reserve to avoid imbalances, promoting the need for operators to invest in reducing co2 emissions, a mechanism to start as early as 2019, instead of the proposed date of 2021.
‒ this proposal is yet another demonstration of the outright and blatant failure of the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (ghg) to achieve its stated objectives. since its creation in 2005, it has failed to reduce ghg emissions or drive any energy paradigm transition, but on the contrary, it has proven to be ineffective and perverse. it was clear during the debate that the supporters of the carbon market - the same ones who, having seen its failure, now want to make some amendments to it - have no answers to simple questions, such as the lack of examples of structural changes, significant from an environmental point of view, achieved through market instruments such as emissions trading. this is why it is time to move from a market-based approach to a regulatory approach that is economically and socially fair and environmentally effective, rather than patching up old wounds. what is born crooked, is later or never straightened. there will be those who will gain from this path. it's not the environment. let us recall, for example, the enormous permeability to fraud already demonstrated by the rcle (the thyssenkrupp and salzgitter cases, among others) and the fabulous profits achieved by some of the biggest polluters.
in writing. ‒ the european council conclusions of 23 and 24 october 2014 on a 2030 framework for climate and energy action state that an operational and reformed emissions trading scheme (ets), with a market stabilisation instrument, will be the main european instrument to achieve the union's greenhouse gas emission reduction target. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the commission presented a proposal for a market stabilisation reserve on 22 january 2014, together with a communication on a 2030 framework for climate and energy action. i would stress that the aim of the commission proposal is to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) in order to address the issue of the surplus of allowances, currently estimated at 2 billion (which have been increasing in the system since 2009 (during phase 2)), and to rectify its shortcomings, in order to achieve its objective of 'promoting the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions under cost-effective and economically efficient conditions' (article 1 of the ets directive). although the 2020 greenhouse gas emissions target is guaranteed by the global emission limit, i would remind you that the surplus of allowances is undermining the cost-effectiveness of the scheme in the long term. the surplus is thus undermining the proper functioning of the carbon market and fundamentally the carbon price, thereby reducing the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the market is not yet in balance. the market stabilisation reserve (mrs) is an efficient tool that will stabilise our emissions trading scheme (ets) and thus save the central pillar of europe's sustainability and climate policy. the market stabilisation reserve is a crucial element in helping to ensure that carbon pricing stimulates innovation in energy efficiency. this reform puts europe on track to meet its 40% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2030 and also sends a strong signal to the climate negotiations to take place in december at cop21 in paris.
‒ the european commission has put forward a legislative proposal to revise the eu emissions trading system (ets), in line with the 2030 climate and energy framework agreed by eu leaders last october. the proposal aims at a more resilient and forward-looking energy union and climate policy which is, moreover, one of the priorities of the juncker commission. as part of the contribution to the new global climate agreement, which is due to be adopted in december, this is undeniably the first step towards the goal of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. it is also intended to establish a market stabilisation reserve for the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) as part of the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies, given the current imbalance between supply and demand for emission allowances. we will thus be strengthening the functioning of the internal energy market at european level and ensuring that it operates in an economically efficient way, which is why i voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
‒ since its creation in 2005, the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (ghges) has failed to reduce emissions in european countries, and there has been no real change in the way energy is produced and spent by industry. the ets is not an incentive to promote investment in clean energy solutions. on the contrary, it closes the door to really effective climate policies by discouraging regulations that are seen as interfering with the carbon price. given the massive number of permits available to pollute, the market has concluded that continuing to pollute is the cheapest option. so there is no investment in clean technologies or low carbon solutions, because there is a carbon market, which is designed to be attractive to industry, and trying to reform this system and equip it with instruments to stabilize it is just a cosmetic, lucrative operation to keep it looking attractive.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is yet another demonstration of the outright and blatant failure of the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme (ghg ets), which since its inception in 2005 has failed to reduce ghg emissions or drive any energy paradigm transition. it was clear during the debate that the supporters of the carbon market - the same ones who, having seen its failure, now want to make some amendments to it - have no answers to simple questions, such as the lack of examples of structural changes, significant from an environmental point of view, achieved through market instruments such as emissions trading. this is why it is time to move from a market-based approach to a regulatory approach that is economically and socially fair and environmentally effective, rather than patching up old wounds.
‒ the report aims to remove the exclusion of seafarers from eu labour law. there is nothing in this particular report which contradicts our positions in defence of workers' rights. the changes brought about are therefore positive for these workers, which is why we voted in favour.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on seafarers, amending a number of legislative texts. i welcome the commission proposal of 19 november 2013 for a directive aimed at improving the rights of seafarers by amending five directives on workers' rights to include seafarers in their scope.
‒ i support the european commission's proposal to improve the working conditions of seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking into account the specificities of this sector of activity. the proposal for a directive thus corresponds to the revision of five previously adopted directives which provided for the exclusion of seafarers from their scope. the european commission recalled that the exclusions for seafarers in the five directives were not included in the commission's initial proposals and had been agreed before the negotiations with the other partners. i am voting in favour of the proposal because i believe that improving the working conditions of seafarers will help to give a new impetus to this sector and i believe that this will help to achieve the objective set by the european commission's blue book published on 10 october 2007, which set as its objective an increase in the number of workers in the maritime and fisheries sector and a qualitative increase in their working conditions, the first objective being impossible to achieve without the second.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the working conditions of seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 eu member states, while taking account of the specificities of this sector of activity. such improvement will contribute to achieving the objective set by the ec blue book (2007) which set as a target a qualitative increase in working conditions in the maritime sector, achieving better protection of workers and protecting competitiveness in the maritime transport sector which represents a challenge for the future of the eu.
‒ the purpose of this legislative resolution is to amend several european directives in order to improve the level of information and consultation of workers in the maritime sector. eu directives on labour law are generally applicable to all sectors of activity and to all categories of workers. however, seafarers are excluded or may be excluded from the scope of some directives, and there is no express justification for this situation. as a result, this proposal provides for the inclusion of seafarers in the scope of the employer's insolvency directive, the directive on collective redundancies and the directive on transfers of undertakings, and for specific provisions, in particular on information and consultation of workers and protection of their rights. the proposal for a directive on seafarers is also in line with the europe 2020 strategy and its employment objectives, respects fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is why it deserved my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the region where i come from, the autonomous region of the azores, everyone knows and recognises the special demands of the seafarer's profession, whether they are fishermen or workers in maritime transport. i therefore see in this legislative initiative of the european commission an opportunity to dignify and, essentially, to improve the working conditions of those who have to face the sea. i agree with the proposal in general terms and with some of the amendments proposed by the european parliament, in particular those which speed up the implementation of the directive in the member states, promote safety, improve working conditions by implementing new technological tools and promote ground-to-ship and vice versa communication. finally, i would stress the importance of collecting data on seafarers' activity, which will enable us to identify further possibilities for improvement. very important and consequential steps have already been taken with regard to fishing activity, but this approach needs to be extended to all activities at sea.
‒ the present proposal for a directive thus corresponds to the revision of five previously adopted directives which provided for the exclusion of seafarers from their scope. the european commission recalled that the exclusions for seafarers in the five directives were not included in the commission's initial proposals and had been agreed before the negotiations with the other partners. the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking account of the specificities of this sector of activity. while we are in favour of this agreement, which makes it possible to make progress and rectify a discriminatory situation for seafarers, it falls far short of the recognition of a set of social and labour rights which we would like to see applied to all workers.
‒ the report advocates ending discrimination against seafarers in relation to other workers by removing the exclusion to which seafarers were subject in relation to eu labour legislation. it thus raises the rights of seafarers who are now covered by legislation on employment relations and conditions from which they were previously excluded. we voted in favour.
‒ this report deals with the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation. the conclusion of this agreement with the swiss confederation builds on the european union's previous agreement with euratom and aims to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 - and to regularise the swiss confederation's participation in the activities of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter). we have no objections in principle to the extension of the research framework programme to other countries. but we continue to denounce the very unequal distribution of resources of this programme of which, please note, portugal was a net contributor in the period 2007-2013. for example, switzerland was able to increase the resources it took from the programme by about four to five times compared with what it contributed. we continue to demand action to change this situation.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i disagree with the iter project. i would argue that in view of the serious risks of nuclear energy, which have been known for a long time and are recalled in every nuclear accident, as was the case with the most recent one in fukushima, it is necessary to abandon this type of energy.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community.
‒ i approve this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion energy joint undertaking.
‒ i voted in favour of this draft european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion energy joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community (euratom) and the swiss confederation associating the latter to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion energy joint undertaking. on 15 november 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of that agreement, which were concluded on 24 july 2014. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
‒ the horizon 2020 programme and the european atomic energy community research and training programme are important instruments for stimulating scientific research. the european union is devoting large sums of money to these programmes, and this will increase knowledge and bring benefits in terms of competitiveness and quality of life for all. the networking promoted by the european union's research programmes integrates and guides cultural diversity in producing innovative results that are useful to society. it seems to me appropriate to extend these benefits to third countries under symbiotic conditions. for these reasons, i welcome the conclusion of this scientific cooperation agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation. the results of this cooperation in the past have supported some of the most important scientific research programmes, such as cern. by investing in this science, we are taking decisive steps toward understanding the infinitely small and distant in terms of space and time. it's where some of the mysteries of the universe are unraveled.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this agreement with the swiss confederation builds on the european union's previous agreement with euratom and aims to associate the swiss confederation with horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation - and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements horizon 2020. it regulates the participation of the swiss confederation in the activities of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter). the negotiations were concluded on 24 july 2014.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid should be limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the common market. the negotiations were concluded on 24 july 2014. we reaffirm that despite the controversy surrounding this project, we consider it important that energy research can continue to improve and overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available, considering the multiplicity of options and giving priority to renewable sources. we voted yes.
‒ the report challenges a number of 'good intentions' concerning employment policies. it makes some improvements on the commission's initial proposal, notably by referring to good working conditions and adequate wages; to social protection and the need to establish a minimum wage per member state; to promoting equality; to combating precarious employment relationships; and to combating poverty. however, in addition to the duality of many of the concepts used (flexibility, adaptability, etc.), it is fixed on the mythical and sacrosanct entrepreneurship as a way of achieving its desires. encouraged in multiple ways, including as a curricular component in the public education system - there is a reference to 'necessary flexibility in education systems and a practical orientation', revealing a professionalizing drift - the logic inherent in the europe 2020 strategy, the european semester and other policies that are based on supranational interference and the imposition of austerity. this is a reductive, class view (that of the ruling class), which we obviously repudiate.
‒ although this report has improved the commission proposal, in particular through references to decent working conditions, or adequate wages, or adequate social protection (including the minimum wage), equality in the labour market, the fight against precarious work, etc., the final report was strongly influenced by the amendments proposed by the epp and alde. the inclusion of references to the promotion of entrepreneurship from school age as a way of combating unemployment, or the idea that member states can convert unemployment benefits into grants for entrepreneurship, or entrepreneurship in the context of social services, are reasons enough for me to have abstained.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. in order to ensure a more democratic decision-making process on guidelines affecting citizens and labour markets across the union, it is important that the european parliament and the council examine together the employment guidelines and the broad economic policy guidelines. such guidelines should enable member states to adopt sustainable economic models.
‒ i agree that the member states and the union should work towards developing an effective and coordinated strategy on employment, aimed at countering the serious effects of unemployment, promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic, social and environmental developments, with a view to achieving the objectives of full employment and social progress set out in article 3 of the treaty on european union. i believe that special efforts should be made to increase the employment of workers with very low levels of education or skills and those who are not able to train or acquire skills quickly, and to reduce the growing large-scale and long-term unemployment, with particular attention to the regions that are lagging behind. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the promotion of employment is defined as a strategic priority, an inclusive and integrated labour market and decent working conditions throughout the union, including adequate wages resulting from collective bargaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which together with the guidelines for economic policies, already adopted in july, constitute the integrated guidelines, which represent the main instrument of the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ this is a report which aims to coordinate economic and employment policies between the member states and the council in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i am well aware that in times of crisis and of disagreement between member states these seem to be objectives which are increasingly distant. however, we must continue to work towards them, reiterating the importance of investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, but also of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, fair wages and pensions and greater attention to inequalities. only a responsible employment policy will lead to social progress in the eu.
‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states are to regard their economic policies and the promotion of employment as matters of common interest and to coordinate their action in these areas within the council. the economic and employment guidelines were first adopted together (as an 'integrated package') in 2010 as the basis for the europe 2020 strategy. however, unlike the economic guidelines, the employment guidelines have to be reworked every year. they define the scope and direction of member states' policy coordination and also form the basis for country-specific recommendations in their respective fields. the current integrated guidelines should serve as a basis for the europe 2020 strategy in the context of the new approach to economic policy-making based on investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. at the same time, they should contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to the achievement of the objectives of the european semester of economic policy coordination. the eight guidelines contained in the report meet the assumptions set out above, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report does not contain any proposals that would suggest any change in the eu's position on this matter. a position of complete commitment to employers, creating increasingly favourable conditions for increased exploitation. in this way, it will continue to increase unemployment, precariousness and low wages. working conditions will continue to deteriorate, with more flexibility and more multi-functional work. in the name of improving the functioning of the labour market, the dominance of one class over another is assured. however, we believe that this will not always be the case.
‒ the report has a number of 'good intentions' concerning employment policies, particularly when it introduces references to good working conditions and adequate wages; to social protection and the need to establish a minimum wage per member state; to the promotion of equality; or to the fight against precarious employment relationships and poverty. however, many of the concepts used - such as 'adaptability' and 'flexibility' - involve changes in working relationships and conditions which lead to deterioration of workers' rights. on the other hand, the main solution advocated is entrepreneurship, which is encouraged in multiple ways, including as a curricular component in the public education system. there is also the reference to "necessary flexibility in education systems and a practical orientation", revealing an essentially vocational education paradigm and the concept of subordinating educational policies to the needs of enterprises. we do not yet agree with the logic of the europe 2020 strategy, the european semester and other policies based on supranational interference and the imposition of austerity. we therefore voted against.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 365 000 for finland to support the 568 workers made redundant at broadcom communications finland and two suppliers or downstream producers.
‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 365 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), following the request made by finland in respect of 568 redundancies at broadcom communications and two of its downstream suppliers/producers. these companies were active in the development of integrated circuit assemblies for telecommunications. the reason for the redundancies at broadcom is the decision to close all the company's activities in finland, and this closure is related to the usual 'significant structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation', a euphemistic term for the crisis of capitalism. once again, the redundancies are taking place in a region already affected by unemployment. the northern ostrobothnia region, where almost all workers are laid off, the current unemployment rate (14,1%) is already 2 percentage points above the national average and was already the region most affected by the nokia redundancies in 2011. it is due to support for these workers, but this mobilization does not erase the eu's deep responsibilities in pursuing policies that generate dramas like this one that is now being attempted.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to finland, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf egf/2015/001 fi/broadcom following 568 redundancies in broadcom communications finland, which operates in the nace rev. 2 division 46 (wholesale trade other than in motor vehicles and motorcycles), and in two suppliers or downstream producers.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. support for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 365 000 in favour of finland for 500 of the 568 workers made redundant by broadcom and two suppliers or downstream producers. i am in favour of the use of this financial envelope to cover the bankruptcies in finland and to support workers in transitioning to new employment, helping them to start their own businesses and providing them with training or education.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) supports the reintegration of european workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from the profound changes in international trade. i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for finland, because 568 workers laid off at broadcom communications finland are to be reintegrated into the labour market. the application meets the requirements for determining a financial contribution from the egf and therefore i supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 365 000.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up precisely to provide support for workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns. that is what was at issue here: the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 365 000 for finland to be used with the workers made redundant by broadcom.
the proposal concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help finnish workers in the electronics industry who have recently been made redundant. it corresponds to a request for mobilisation made by finland on 30 january following redundancies at broadcom communications. indeed, it was found that there was a correlation between the 568 redundancies and the structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, mainly due to the fact that the asian continent, as of 2004, has acquired the status of the largest employer in the electronics and electrical engineering sector, with consequences in terms of reducing the number of workers employed in this industry in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland, in the amount of eur 1 365 000, meeting the eligibility criteria.
in writing. ‒ on 2 june 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by broadcom. this is the 12th application examined under the 2015 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 365 000 from the egf for finland. it concerns 500 of the 568 workers made redundant by broadcom and two suppliers or downstream producers. it is ironic that this country, which was the mecca of neoliberalism, with its innovative growth model based on the export of technology, is now turning to this charity that helps workers but does not solve the underlying problem of capitalism.
‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 365 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the request made by finland regarding 568 redundancies at broadcom communications and two of its downstream suppliers/producers. these companies were active in the development of integrated circuits for telecommunications. the reason for the redundancies at broadcom was the decision to close all the company's activities in finland, which was linked to the emergence of several employers in the electronics and electrical engineering industry in asia from 2004. this worsened the situation in finland, as this trend affected the entire finnish electronics industry and culminated in nokia announcing large-scale layoffs in 2011. although the purpose of this fund is not to deal with the problem of the regulation of world trade, we have nevertheless supported this mobilization.
‒ i congratulate my colleague josé manuel fernandes on his important report on the political priorities for the eu budget for 2016. i welcome the focus on the 3es. i welcome the intensification of eu support for investment, knowledge, employment and growth-oriented programmes such as the flagship erasmus+ mobility programme. i agree with the increases which enable the commission to deal with the new crises in ukraine, syria and the mediterranean. i welcome the proposals to mobilise the juncker plan, in particular the mobilisation of the global commitment margin to cover part of the expenditure needed to finance the €8 billion guarantee fund. i am afraid that the appropriation for the youth employment initiative (yei) as an essential instrument in the fight against youth unemployment in the union is not sufficient.
‒ this report sets out the mandate for the european parliament's negotiating team to negotiate the 2016 eu budget proposal with the council, which will start as early as 14 july, before the draft eu budget for 2016 is presented at the end of july. the 2016 mandate shows, at least on a weekly basis, some improvements over recent years. many of these improvements are due to the fact that some of the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl have been accepted. in particular, the report calls for support for eu social programmes; the promotion of decent and quality work; greater support for cohesion policies and the need to reduce disparities, whether at local, regional or national level; the need to strengthen support for countries facing social, economic and financial constraints; increasing support for the development of the integration of migrants, criticising the positions of both the commission and the european council. the mandate given to the rapporteur of the european parliament to negotiate this budget, despite a slight semantic improvement, will be a budget that serves the big corporate and financial interests that the eu serves, not the people of europe.
‒ parliament approved its priorities for the negotiations with the eu council of ministers on the eu budget for 2016. i support the rapporteur in advocating certain key points: that no cuts be made to the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme), the continuation of the youth employment initiative and the need to reduce the unsustainable delay of outstanding settlement payments relating to cohesion programmes by the end of 2016. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ i support the report which argues that decent and quality job creation, business development and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the union, together with internal and external solidarity in a secure europe, should be the focus of the priorities for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the broad consensus in the assessment of the draft amending budgets in 2015 is welcome, and the negotiation of the payment plan so far demonstrates a shared will to respect the mff, implement the carefully negotiated legal bases and ensure the financing of new programmes.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes, with a favourable vote, as it opposes cuts in the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme), advocates the continuation of the youth employment initiative and reiterates the need to reduce the unsustainable backlog of outstanding settlement payments related to cohesion programmes to a level of around eur 2 billion by the end of 2016.
‒ this resolution corresponds to the second stage of the annual budgetary procedure. the report assesses the commission's draft budget for 2016 and also assesses the main points of the ep's mandate for the june trilogue, identifying the ep's budgetary priorities in 2016 by heading. among the issues of particular interest to the ep are job creation and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship across the union (the 'three e's), internal and external solidarity in europe, security and migration and the inclusion of a final agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the need to ensure that there is a sufficient level of payment appropriations to cover the growing needs of new programmes, that it allows for the financing of new priorities (e.g. migration, asylum, security) and that it is able to guarantee a level of financing for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme programme) should also be stressed. it is also essential to ensure the continuity of the youth employment initiative (yei) in the 2016 budget. since i agree with these priorities, i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report acknowledges a number of shortcomings in the budget and therefore intends to enter into negotiations with a number of important assumptions which we are following. however, given the tight budgetary limits and the council's traditional position on this matter, we have doubts about the possibility of improving a budget which is very negative and in which the conditions for a fruitful negotiation are not met.
the report sets out the mandate for the ep's negotiating team to negotiate the eu 2016 budget with the council, which will start as early as 14 july, before the draft eu 2016 budget is presented at the end of july. the 2016 mandate shows, at least semantically, some improvements over recent years. many of these improvements are due to the fact that some of the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl have been accepted. in particular, it calls for the strengthening of eu social programmes and the promotion of decent and quality work; the report calls for greater support for cohesion policies and argues for the need to reduce disparities whether at local, regional or national level; the need to strengthen support for countries facing social, economic and financial constraints; and increased support for the development of the integration of migrants. despite the semantic improvements, we know that the eu budget is the materialization of a political project that serves the big corporate and financial interests and not the people of europe.
‒ in the face of the challenges of globalisation, inefficient resource management and climate change, building a greener and more environmentally friendly economy is a priority. there is an increasing need for a serious and coherent policy capable of meeting common challenges and promoting sustainable job creation in all its aspects. in a context of global competition, europe is at the level and has an obligation to invest in new green economies in a variety of sectors and across the entire value chain, from research to production, distribution, service provision, high technology and even traditional sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, tourism, construction and catering, translatable into economic gains in the medium and long term and according to estimates generating 20 million new jobs. i therefore support mrs lambert's report which, in a holistic way, addresses investment in sustainable job creation, calling for the full use of community funds to this end and not forgetting in particular small and mediumsized enterprises.
‒ the report presents positive concepts, proposals and perspectives - in the direction of economic revitalization, training, promotion of gender equality and sustainable development practices. however, the promotion of this development is based on measures, policies or resolutions which are essentially opposed to the principles of 'green' development, namely: fiscal policies which remove taxes from labour by removing proportionality from taxes, in particular through the devolution of the irs to the application of universal taxes (vat) on consumption; the application of the polluter-pays principle, which is a dubious concept; the trading of co2 emission allowances; the dependence on strategies and directives which are generally opposed to what we advocate.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the green economy is an important sector for boosting job creation at european level. the report also argues that jobs created in the green economy must be of high quality and sustainable, and describes the need for an eu-wide industrial strategy to develop the renewable energy sector. other very important aspects are strengthening the participation of workers in the management of the transition, ensuring that a shift to environmental taxation should not have disproportionate impacts on the lowest earners.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green jobs initiative. the insufficiency of the measures in force to achieve the objectives of protecting biodiversity, reducing the use of fossil fuels, combating climate change and preventing its impact on human health and the quality of the environment has given rise to the need to develop a comprehensive strategy in this area, with a significant impact on job creation. it is imperative to redirect europe's investment in renewable energy, thus helping to maintain its economic and industrial competitiveness and progressively reduce its energy dependence.
‒ i agree with the 2015 report of the european environment agency which stresses the inadequacy of the measures in force to achieve the objectives of protecting biodiversity, reducing the use of fossil fuels, combating climate change and preventing its impact on human health and the environment. i stress that without a coherent policy response to address these common challenges, a significant part of the sustainable job creation potential of the transition to an inclusive green economy may be missed. i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report which calls for an ambitious and coherent policy on the part of the european union in the fields of renewable energy, forestry management, sustainable agriculture and soil protection. only in this way will we be able to create the 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020.
in the report, the commission proposes to increase the number of jobs created by the green economy by the year 2020. according to the ilo, green jobs are decent jobs that reduce energy and raw material consumption, limit greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems, where the involvement of the workforce is essential to achieve the transition to a green economy. in this regard, member states should make more effective use of the wide range of european funds and financial instruments available to support the creation of green and sustainable jobs, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises.
‒ this proposal is the result of a legislative initiative to implement the green jobs initiative in order to exploit the job creation potential of the green economy. indeed, inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change, as well as social exclusion and inequalities pose challenges to long-term economic growth. as such, a green growth model - low carbon, climate resilient and resource efficient - is needed. it is also necessary to present solutions and tools aimed at supporting and creating jobs in the green economy and contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. i agree with the rapporteur on the strategy to be adopted, which should focus on, inter alia, closing skills gaps, anticipating change, promoting mobility and improving the quality of statistical data. finally, it is important to promote social dialogue and international cooperation with the various stakeholders, such as the global institute for green growth, the oecd, unep and the world bank. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am interested in this category of so-called 'green' employment which benefits from new attitudes towards scarcity and resource sensitivity. we are providing well-paying employment solutions that contribute to the improvement of the quality of life for current and future generations. as the report we are discussing says, i also regret the hesitations of the european commission in relation to the circular economy. there are tens of thousands of green jobs waiting for high-level regulation. for the seas and oceans, investing in blue growth opens up new opportunities for 'green jobs'. after hundreds of years in which the basis of employment at sea was fishing and transport, there is now room for alternative energy, biotechnology and marine tourism. the european maritime and fisheries fund must be especially dedicated to these alternative and potentially very lucrative routes.
‒ the report states that the green economy is set against a backdrop of a number of challenges highlighted by the commission: inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressure on the environment, climate change, social exclusion and inequalities... recognises the need to mainstream the concept of the green economy, reflected in a need for a coherent and comprehensive policy framework that offers a predictable atmosphere for training and investment. we share many of the same ideas, but we think that to base the whole economy on renewable energy is a somewhat naive approach and to some extent counterproductive, in that it may divert attention from the real problem, which is a mismatch between the current production capacity of the eu and the solvent purchasing power of consumers.
‒ i voted in favour of the lambert report on the 'green jobs initiative: harnessing the job creation potential of the green economy' because i believe that a smart investment in the green economy will create wealth and quality jobs in a sustainable way. sustainable consumption and production in the context of a green economy will allow for multiplier effects on the economy, which will enable new productive opportunities and open up new frontiers for research and innovation. combined with the possibilities offered by information and communication technologies, the new industrialisation will have to have a strong focus on environmental sustainability. the lambert report articulates with great clarity the challenges, opportunities and objectives that job creation in the context of the green economy faces.
‒ the report presents concepts, proposals and perspectives which we consider positive - in terms of economic revitalisation, training, the promotion of equality between men and women and sustainable development practices. however, the promotion of this development is based on measures, policies or resolutions which are essentially opposed to the principles of 'green' development, namely: fiscal policies which remove taxes from labour - which can remove proportionality from taxes, in particular by means of the devolution of the irs to stop the application of universal taxes (vat) on consumption - the application of the polluter-pays principle, with which we disagree, or the trading of co2 emission allowances. on the other hand, it presents the idea that so-called green jobs are the panacea for solving the employment problem, which seems to us to be excessive. we abstained.
‒ although domestic resources are the largest source of financing for developing countries (ldcs), the tax-to-gdp ratio is on average very low. taxation can be a viable and sustainable source of revenue in developing countries, with the advantage of stability compared to traditional development financing mechanisms. experts estimate that $269 billion could be mobilized if tax collection were improved. tax evasion (through vat fraud, failure to declare personal and business income, or bribery of tax officials) and tax avoidance, for example through profit transfers by multinationals moving their assets, should therefore be dealt with with carefully. i support the measures envisaged in this report to combat these phenomena in the developing countries by strengthening their tax systems, making them fair, balanced, efficient and transparent. good governance in tax matters should therefore be a priority in the conclusion of cooperation agreements between the eu and third countries. the definition of a globally accepted list of tax havens and countries that accept tax evasion should also be a priority.
in writing. the report considers that taxation is a sustainable and reliable source of revenue in developing countries, with the advantage of stability compared to traditional mechanisms for financing development. the report also calls for the eu to support the development of the eu's energy sector, and calls for the eu to support the development of the energy sector in the eu. we agree with this, although we must respect the sovereignty and the legitimate choices of these countries in the field of taxation - a field which is at the heart of the sovereignty of the state. all attempts to condition the choices of countries in this field, which are often insinuated under the guise of technical cooperation, must be firmly rejected. the report also advocates measures to combat money laundering, the financing of illicit or terrorist activities and tax evasion - common practices, often involving multinationals, that are so damaging to these countries. the report also addresses the issue of tax havens in a generally correct level of the recognised negative impacts of tax havens but insufficient way. we are not in favour of the use of the term 'contract' in the sense of the treaty of rome.
in writing. - i voted in favour because it is undeniable that tax havens and tax evasion have been responsible for capital flight that should have been taxed in other countries and generators of harmful practices of tax competition that have greatly undermined a more equitable and sustainable development. this report calls on the european commission to develop a policy to promote tax justice and to carry out a study of the impact of european tax policies in developing countries, including country-by-country reports for multinationals.
in writing. it is important, in the context of the european union's role in the world, that the european commission takes concrete measures to support developing countries in the fight against tax avoidance and evasion, in the development of fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax policies, and in the promotion of structural reforms. the european commission should assist these countries in building capacity to fight tax fraud, corruption, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, including technical assistance in human resources training and development of administrative structures.
in writing. ‒ i agree that illicit financial flows (iff) i.e. all unregistered private financial flows involving capital obtained, transferred or used illegally are usually the result of tax avoidance and evasion activities, such as abusive transfer pricing, which is contrary to the principle of taxing profits where they are made, and that tax avoidance and evasion have been identified in all major international texts and conferences on development finance as the main obstacles to the mobilisation of domestic revenues for development. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to ensure that tax collection at internal level becomes more predictable, stable and sound and that all members of society - individuals and companies alike - pay according to their abilities. i argue that a fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax system allows governments to access the funding essential to uphold citizens' right to access basic public services such as healthcare and education for all, and that an effective redistributive tax policy helps to mitigate the effects of growing inequalities on the most deprived.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the need for an action plan to combat tax avoidance and evasion in developing countries, such as: strengthening financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks; adopting robust solutions to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax fraud; drawing up an eu and member state impact assessment on tax policies in developing countries; preserving the tax rights of home countries in tax treaty negotiations; and creating a genuine intergovernmental body in which developing countries can participate on an equal footing in the global reform of international tax rules. we must establish fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems!
in writing. ‒ better justice is essential in reducing social inequalities. domestic resources are the largest source of finance for developing countries. although they have increased as a percentage of gdp over the last decade, the tax-to-gdp ratio is still very low. the european parliament, through this report, calls on the commission to present an action plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax evasion by creating fairer and more transparent tax systems and, consequently, by strengthening investment capacity and financing of infrastructure, public services, health and education.
‒ together with the report by mr silva pereira on financing for development, adopted in may 2015, this report constitutes a 'package' on the ep's position ahead of the 3rd international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa in july 2015. its main objective is to address the challenges faced by developing countries in tax and tax governance matters, as well as the need for greater transparency and effectiveness of national and international tax systems. the report's main strengths are the adoption of an automatic exchange of information mechanism, the creation of an internationally agreed definition of tax havens, sanctions for operators who use them and a blacklist of countries, and the need for the commission to draw up an ambitious action plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax evasion. the fact that this report was adopted unanimously reflects the urgency of finding a solution to these tax crimes.
‒ the report states that a fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax system and an effective and efficient tax authority are needed to promote compliance with tax obligations and a responsible use of public finances. recognises that, in view of the administrative and technical political constraints faced by developing countries in order to increase tax revenues, eu member states should support these countries in the training of their tax authorities. recognises the urgency of making public and freely accessible all information on the beneficial ownership of companies, funds and other institutions in order to combat money laundering, the financing of illicit or terrorist activities, concealing the theft of public funds and the proceeds of illegal trafficking and tax evasion. we recognize very positive elements.
in writing. the report considers that taxation is a sustainable and reliable source of revenue in developing countries, with the advantage of stability compared to traditional mechanisms for financing development. the report also calls for the eu to support the development of the eu's energy sector, and calls for the eu to support the development of the energy sector in the eu. we agree with this, although we must respect the sovereignty and the legitimate choices of these countries in the field of taxation - a field which is at the heart of the sovereignty of the state. all attempts to condition the choices of countries in this field, which are often insinuated under the guise of technical cooperation, must be firmly rejected. the report also advocates measures to combat money laundering, the financing of illicit or terrorist activities and tax evasion - common practices, often involving multinationals, that are so damaging to these countries. the report also addresses the issue of tax havens in a generally correct level of the recognised negative impacts of tax havens but insufficient way. we are not in favour of the use of the term 'contract' in the sense of the treaty of rome.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs pietikäinen on the circular economy. we are dealing with a political guidance document addressed to the european commission and not with a legislative text. this justifies a set of ambitious proposals that will lead the commission to maintain the eu's leadership in matters relating to waste management, energy efficiency and green growth. i am in solidarity with the rapporteur on the proposal for binding targets and i regret that this has not been followed up by the majority of the european parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the waste management of waste. mandatory targets are called for for the reduction of waste production by 2025 by introducing mandatory separate collection of bio-waste by 2020; recycling and preparation for re-use targets that should reach at least 70% of municipal solid waste and 80% of packaging waste by 2030. it also calls for incineration to be strictly limited by 2020 for non-recyclable and non-biodegradable waste and for a binding, gradual reduction of all landfill waste in three stages (2020, 2025, 2030). the report highlights legitimate environmental concerns, including product durability, reuse and recycling, among other important aspects. but, as you would expect, it takes a responsible approach to the way of organizing production and the dominant society on a global scale - capitalism. on the contrary, it abuses the market view, rather than holding the state and public policies accountable, which would be especially important in areas as sensitive as waste which is being discussed here. the disastrous consequences of market entry and domination in sectors such as this are well known. but the report says nothing about that. although some positive guidance, this is your original sin.
in writing. ‒ europe is more dependent on imports than any other region in the world: 40% of all materials used in the eu are imported. this percentage is even higher for some strategic resources such as metal ores and nutrients: 92% of phosphorus, which is essential for european agriculture, is imported, the vast majority from russia, syria, morocco and tunisia. it is unnecessary to enumerate the dangers of this dependence, both for the european economy and for european security. rethinking resource sustainability through a circular economy, which prioritizes reuse, re-processing and recycling, is the way forward. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the transition to a circular economy requires systemic change affecting all actors in the value chain, as well as substantial innovations in technologies, businesses and society at large. i am in favour of this report which aims to contribute to a greater reuse of available resources, but i believe that these activities must not be carried out at too high a cost to european smes. i therefore believe that there must be a strong balance between the sustainable reuse of resources and the financial costs that companies must bear, so that the idea in question here does not seriously undermine the economic and financial sustainability of companies over the coming years.
‒ the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 times the planet's resources to achieve its total output and absorb waste. it's estimated that by 2030, this number will double the planet's resources. setting a binding waste reduction target, revising european legislation on green concessions and taking measures to decouple growth from the use of natural resources are some of the recommendations made in this report on the transition to a circular economy. for these reasons, and because it is crucial to present a new and more ambitious legislative package on the circular economy by the end of 2015 in order to meet new challenges, i voted in favour of this document. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission presented a communication entitled 'towards a circular economy: an agenda to end waste in europe' aimed at designing and innovating for a circular economy, creating a policy framework to support resource efficiency and defining a specific strategic framework to enable smes to turn environmental challenges into environmentally sustainable business opportunities. moving towards a more circular economy is essential to delivering on the europe 2020 strategy on resource efficiency, promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this system will create added value for products and eliminate waste. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to adopt legislative measures on waste by the end of 2015, proposing ambitious resource efficiency targets and reliable indicators. as regards the targets, one word to say that the principle of subsidiarity must always be safeguarded when setting binding targets for the member states with a view to resource efficiency, since the specificities inherent in each country cannot fail to be taken into account.
‒ i welcome this report with optimism. strengthening the circular economy in europe is a contribution to improving the global environment. every year, as a consequence of the still-prevailing linear economy, huge amounts of waste enter the seas, degrade and turn into even more dangerous pollutants, including so-called microplastics. on the other hand, high concentrations of carbon in the atmosphere acidify the oceans to levels that destroy the efficiency of ecosystems. the strategies set out in this report are imperative for global food security. the circular economy must be a winning strategy in europe and this model must be exported to the world.
‒ the legislative proposal on waste was controversially withdrawn by the commission a couple of months later and was strongly criticised by the european parliament, eu environment ministers and civil society. the report calls for significant improvements compared to the withdrawn commission proposal, as the commission did not make any proposal on binding reduction targets, calling for mandatory targets for the reduction of waste production by 2025. the commission is urged to present a new, more ambitious proposal by the end of 2015 reflecting waste prevention measures, binding waste reduction targets for municipal, industrial and commercial waste to be achieved by 2025, and calls for the application of the 'pay as you throw' principle for waste disposal to be combined with mandatory separate collection systems for paper, metal, plastic and glass, introducing the mandatory separate collection of biobased waste by 2020.
‒ i voted in favour of the pietikäinen report on resource efficiency: transition to a circular economy because i believe that the commitment to a circular economy, which allows for wealth creation by incorporating waste management into the value chain, is a smart and urgent commitment to the environmental, economic and social challenges that societies are facing at the same time. unregulated globalization leads to increased inequalities and our environmental footprint. the circular economy is an integrated and holistic approach to the challenges of globalisation, combining economic competitiveness and environmental sustainability, and enabling economic growth for current generations without compromising the development of future generations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
‒ the physical limits of our planet are constantly being challenged by the economic and social system that is largely dominant on a world scale capitalism. this report does not, of course, criticize this self-destructive system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the environment. this is the opposite of what is being done in several countries, such as portugal, where, against the wishes of the people and local authorities, progress has been made towards the privatisation of the waste sector.
in writing. ‒ we agree that legislation needs to be more appropriate and updated so that in the event of nuclear accidents, such as those at chernobyl and fukushima, swift and effective measures are taken to protect and ensure food safety for european consumers. the levels and guarantees proposed in the report for food safety were not sufficient. the 2013 revised codex alimentarius proposes specific criteria for radionuclides in food, points to more restrictive criteria, and the need for an emergency change in the established levels. the levels proposed in this report fall short of what is needed to protect consumers and the safety of europe's population in the event of a nuclear accident. codex also proposes the inclusion of other radioactive isotopes which have not been included in annex i.
‒ it is important that the european union has up-to-date legal instruments with simplified decision-making processes adapted to each situation to deal with situations such as those that occurred in the chernobyl and fukushima accidents. the proposal introduces some new elements which establish a clearer link with european food safety regulations. there should therefore be stricter rules on the import of food from countries affected by nuclear accidents. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in april 2010, the european commission put forward a proposal to recast regulation (euratom) no 3954/87 introducing maximum levels of contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency. i am in favour of this regulation setting maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of minor foodstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency and also maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency. the legal basis of this proposal required only a consultation of the european parliament. i support the new proposal which is the subject of this report, introducing some new elements which establish a clearer link with european food safety regulations.
‒ in the event of a radioactive accident or emergency, it is important that the european union has up-to-date legal instruments with simplified decision-making processes adapted to each situation to deal with situations such as those that occurred in the chernobyl and fukushima accidents. this council proposal, which is the subject of this report, introduces some new elements which establish a clearer link with european food safety regulations. i voted in favour of this report because food safety is the ultimate objective of the proposal.
‒ the council proposal for a regulation lays down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed which may be placed on the european market following an accident or any other case of radiological emergency. it also lays down the procedures and implementing powers to make the pre-established maximum levels applicable. the proposal replaces regulation no 3954/87, which was established in 1987 following the chernobyl disaster, although the maximum permissible levels have not been changed. the maximum permitted levels apply to feed and food originating in the eu or imported from third countries, according to the place and circumstances of the nuclear accident or emergency. the report therefore calls for a change in the legal basis of the regulation for the articles on public health and the internal market in the lisbon treaty, reinforcing the implementing measures adopted in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency and updating the annexes to the regulation setting out the maximum permitted levels and the list of foods. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the suggestions made by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ in april 2010, the european commission put forward a proposal to recast regulation (euratom) no 3954/87 introducing maximum levels of contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident. the legal basis of this proposal required only a consultation of the european parliament. however, during the submission of this proposal, it was found that the provisions of regulation (euratom) no 3954/87 were not compatible with the new rules on 'comitology' introduced after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the european commission has therefore decided to withdraw this draft and to submit a new one. the new proposal, which is the subject of this report, introduces some new elements which establish a clearer link with european food safety regulations. the proposal sets out in its annexes the maximum levels tolerated in the event of a radioactive accident or emergency, which were confirmed in 2012 by the expert group.
‒ this is a good example of the contradictions that mark the current process of capitalist integration in the european union and also of the lack of solutions to the problems facing european economies. the european union is still in crisis. a quarter of europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. that's 24 million people out of work. the youth unemployment rate doubled between 2007 and 2014. instead of identifying the root causes of the crisis and the need to find public solutions to correct monumental market failures, it is betting on the same solutions that are at the root of the current crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the belief that it is possible to create a legislative framework with a necessarily highly complex supervision that will allow us to guarantee a market solution to the problem of the lack of financing of our thousands of smes is a dangerous illusion that reveals a certain blindness. and it's also a bias against public policy. we obviously voted against it.
‒ this resolution is totally uncritical of the role of capital markets and various financial instruments in the development of the financial crisis, and does not even take into account the effect of austerity policies. the resolution merely follows the line of the european commission, which insists on further legislation without calling into question legislation already adopted.
in writing. - i am in favour of the creation of a capital markets union, in order to bring back volumes of investment to these markets that will allow economic growth and job creation. hence my vote.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the creation of a capital markets union as the cmu aims to remove the barriers that block cross-border investment in the eu and prevent companies from accessing finance. one of the objectives is to unlock liquidity, placing it at the service of european companies, especially smes. the commission is therefore urged to develop a european approach to enhance the diversification of sources of finance and investment in european companies through a cmu based on the characteristics and interdependence of the european banking and capital markets landscape.
‒ the capital markets union is a good example illustrating, on the one hand, the contradictions of the current process of capitalist integration of the european union and, on the other, the lack of solutions to the problems facing european economies. the european union is facing a crisis of enormous gravity. a quarter of europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. that's 24 million people out of work. youth unemployment rates doubled between 2007 and 2014. instead of understanding the causes of the crisis, identifying the root causes of the crisis and the need to find public solutions to correct the monumental market failures, it is betting on the same solutions that are at the root of the current crisis. the aim of integrating a capital market will not solve any of the problems of our economies. the belief that it is possible to create a legislative framework with a necessarily highly complex supervision that will allow us to guarantee a market solution to the problem of the lack of funding of our thousands of smes is a dangerous illusion that reveals some blindness and is a prejudice against public policies.
in writing. ‒ instead of understanding the causes of the crisis, identifying the deep-seated causes of the crisis and the need to find public solutions to correct monumental market failures, it is betting on the same solutions that are at the root of the current crisis. the aim of integrating a capital market will not solve any of the problems of our economies. the belief that it is possible to create a legislative framework with a necessarily highly complex supervision that will allow us to guarantee a market solution to the problem of the lack of funding for our thousands of smes is a dangerous illusion that reveals a political project that rejects the centrality of public policies.
‒ the european agenda for security is an essential element for the legislative planning of the area of freedom, security and justice. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. this resolution is not the most desirable one, because we forget that without security there is no freedom, and that without freedom there is no security and that without freedom there is dictatorship. i would like to stress two fundamental points, however, because i have been struggling: firstly, to make a serious assessment of the instruments in force before amending them, and secondly, as regards the schengen information service, to exploit all the potential it already has and which is still underused. it is up to parliament to ensure that, over the next five years, the implementation of this agenda protects citizens without harming their freedom.
‒ the report begins by welcoming the 'european agenda for security for 2015-2020 proposed by the commission' and the priorities set out therein. that's saying a lot. it is a document full of the usual apparent good intentions, interspersed with (vaguely worded) concepts such as "terrorism", "radicalization" and "cybercrime". the proposals that open the door to restrictive measures on fundamental freedoms, to control and repression of citizens and to free democratic participation are unmistakable. it deliberately omits the reasons which underlie the current european and international situation, such as the implementation of neoliberal policies attacking workers' rights, the imposition of 'austerity' measures in the so-called peripheral countries of the european union, the interference and participation in conflicts, through nato, in third countries and the manifest inability to manage and respond to the flow of migrants and refugees seeking to reach europe. we voted against it.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the resolution on the european agenda for security. organised crime in all its forms (such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings) but most fundamentally terrorism, radicalisation, recruitment and associated financing, is assumed to be a serious threat to the internal security of the european union. serious crime and terrorism diminish the sense of security without which people cannot effectively enjoy their freedom and exercise their individual rights. the availability and exchange of information should be strengthened as a means of preventing and combating cross-border crime and terrorism, operational cooperation and coordination in the field of investigation should be intensified, cooperation between third states should be strengthened and strategic partnerships should be developed to combat this phenomenon. recognising the key importance of the involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments in this area, the need to provide member states with important mechanisms, such as a strong and structured eu pnr directive, is stressed, which is essential for the fulfilment of their tasks and to combat current threats such as terrorism.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european agenda for security to pay greater attention to the evolution of crossborder organised crime, in relation to arms trafficking, human trafficking and the production and sale of illicit drugs. the resolution also calls on the member states to ensure that the principle of the best interests of the child is respected in all safety legislation. i also support the launch of a campaign to raise awareness and prepare for the risks related to serious cybercrime, improving resilience against cyberattacks.
in writing. ‒ it is stated that the threats to the internal security of the union have become more complex, hybrid, asymmetrical, unconventional, international, fast-moving and difficult to predict, exceeding the capacity of any individual member state, and therefore require, more than ever, a coherent, comprehensive, multidimensional and coordinated eu response, which takes full account of respect for fundamental rights. it is assumed from this premise that the development of eu security policy is a matter of shared responsibility requiring coordinated and harmonised efforts by all member states, eu institutions and agencies, civil society and law enforcement authorities, aimed at common objectives and based on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. this is the usual rhetoric that is intended to fuel increasingly bellicose and repressive policies. instead of understanding that conflicts and fundamentalism are a response to imperialism, it is betting on strengthening the muscular solutions and at the same time taking measures that are curtailing the individual freedom of citizens and reducing their right to privacy.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. we believe that under the pretext of combating 'terrorism', 'radicalisation' and 'cybercrime', restrictive measures are advocated against the so-called fundamental freedoms - here supposedly defended - opening the way to control and repression of citizens and limitation of free democratic participation. the report deliberately omits the reasons which underlie the current european and international situation, such as the implementation of neoliberal policies attacking workers' rights, the imposition of 'austerity' measures in the countries of the european union, the interference and participation in conflicts, in partnership with nato, in third countries, and the repressive way in which migrants are being treated. we voted against it.
‒ the instability in this country is unfortunately not new. the situation has been deteriorating for the last decade and since january this year has been virtually in an unprecedented civil war. this vast territory of enormous geostrategic importance is in fact experiencing a power vacuum. it houses not only what is considered the most dangerous al-qaeda cell but, also due to international action, has become a territory conducive to the development and expansion of other extremist and terrorist organisations, including isis/daesh. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. the european union, through its high representative, must indeed make efforts to create a large international coalition to end the conflict, provide humanitarian aid and thus be able to start a genuine process of stabilisation in the country.
we condemn the military aggression against yemen by saudi arabia, supported by the dictatorial regimes of the persian gulf and the united states, with the infamous use of cluster bombs. a military intervention which constitutes a violation of international law and an unacceptable interference, confirming a saudi arabian interventionist tendency in countries in the region. this military aggression and the economic blockade imposed by saudi arabia has already caused the deaths of thousands of people, forcing 80% of the yemeni population to be deprived of food, water and health care, and imposing a wave of hundreds of thousands of refugees. this is not unconnected with the intention of imposing the domination of imperialism in the middle east, crushing the yemeni sovereign claim and ensuring control of yemen's geostrategic position on the routes for the transport of energy raw materials. the content of this resolution could well be adapted to various countries and peoples of the middle east. this is an aggression which is a dangerous development in a region marked by great tension, by various conflicts and by the consequences of the policy of interference, division and war of the usa, the nato powers and their allies in the middle east.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in yemen. it is essential to achieve a lasting humanitarian ceasefire to allow for the delivery of urgent humanitarian assistance and the supply of essential goods. more than 100,000 people have already fled their homes, mostly women and children, according to the united nations agency.
‒ yemen, one of the poorest countries in the arabian peninsula, is currently experiencing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis as a result of bombing by the saudi-led coalition and fighting between houthi rebels and troops loyal to the government. according to united nations figures, between march and july 2015, 1,528 civilians have been killed and 3,605 have been displaced. there are over 250 000 refugees and 335 000 internally displaced persons. a country where the main political figures of the transitional government are in exile in saudi arabia. in addition to the daily escalation of violence, there is a naval blockade with dramatic effects on the civilian population. there needs to be a global humanitarian strategy for yemen, led by the united nations. international organisations and donor countries should coordinate strategies. the belligerents must in turn accept the entry of aid. more than 15.9 million people in yemen are in need of support. the deterioration of security conditions has led to the withdrawal of humanitarian organisations and has given rise to an increase in the number of terrorists, including the self-proclaimed islamic state. i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ considering that 15.9 million people in yemen are in need of humanitarian aid; that the most vulnerable children will not have access to the health care or nutritional services they need and due to the current widespread insecurity, i voted in favour of this resolution. for these reasons and because it is crucial to coordinate humanitarian action under the aegis of the united nations, i condemn all forms of violence and attempts or threats to use violence to intimidate participants in un-mediated consultations.
‒ yemen is located in a geographical and strategic shipping area from which 40% of all the oil consumed by the european world is transported. it is also the zone of influence of the us fifth gulf squadron, based in bahrain. with a population fundamentally believing in islam, it is divided into 52% sunni and 46% shi'a. corruption, submission to western policies in the framework of the "war on terror" as the enforcer of riyadh's policies, have increasingly isolated the regime of ousted former president ali abdullah saleh, who ruled between 1990 and 2012, as well as his successor abd rabbu mansur hadi. in this context, the struggle of the ansarolah people's movement, the internal divisions within the ruling core and the chronic rivalries between the north and the south, have weaved the way for the uprising of their population against governments incapable of realizing the welfare of their peoples. the united states and saudi arabia fear ansarolah's triumph as it sees an expansion of iranian influence in the region, and they are trying to use the bombs to prevent any alternative solution other than the restoration of the regime that has destroyed the country and left the population in misery.
we condemn the military aggression against yemen by saudi arabia, supported by the dictatorial regimes of the persian gulf and the united states, with the infamous use of cluster bombs. a military intervention which constitutes a violation of international law and an unacceptable interference, confirming a saudi arabian interventionist tendency in countries in the region. this military aggression and the economic blockade imposed by saudi arabia has already caused the deaths of thousands of people, forcing 80 percent of the yemeni population to be deprived of food, water and health care, and imposing a wave of hundreds of thousands of refugees. this is not unconnected with the intention of imposing the domination of imperialism in the middle east, crushing the yemeni sovereign claim and ensuring control of yemen's geostrategic position on the routes for the transport of energy raw materials. the content of this resolution could well be adapted to various countries and peoples of the middle east. this is an aggression which is a dangerous development in a region marked by great tension, by various conflicts and by the consequences of the policy of interference, division and war of the usa, the nato powers and their allies in the middle east. we voted yes.
‒ the humanitarian emergency we are living through in the mediterranean, with particular emphasis on greece and italy, reminds us daily not only of the tragic reality on the african continent (especially in the north) and in the middle east, but also of the intensity with which developments in this area directly affect the european union. in the area of security, as this report deals with, the impact on the union is no less. it is therefore crucial for europe to have a strategy for the security and stability of this region, as it does for other areas. it is important to stress the importance of this report, which i support, to the direct dialogue with society, to the union for the mediterranean, but also the uncompromising appeal to religious pluralism in this region. there is still a lot to be done and europe must play a central role in changing the status quo.
‒ this resolution continues the eu's policy of destabilisation, interference and aggression in the middle east and north africa regions. the text, which does not take responsibility for the situation in those territories, is in line with the so-called 'democratization' of the countries concerned. we know very well what democratization they are talking about and how this process is translated into the formation and support of authoritarian regimes that pursue the imperialist policy that the usa, nato and the eu have been imposing on the peoples. it is continuing along the path of militarization, of bellicose aggression, of securing relations with those countries, trampling on the legitimate will of the peoples and their inalienable right to sovereignty. it supports the concept of a fortress europe, seeking to strengthen mechanisms such as frontex, one of the central pillars of the eu's criminalising, security, exploitative and elitist immigration policy. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability. the european union must take strong action, with one voice, on the issues of security and political stability affecting the countries of the mena, in the fight against terrorism and the serious violations of human rights in these areas, which have long been ravaged by armed conflict. only a united europe with a genuine common foreign policy can contribute to the stabilization of the region by strengthening security measures and the overall strategy for democracy and economic development in those countries, without which there can be no hope of lasting peace.
‒ i agree that the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the escalation of tensions in the middle east and north africa (mena) region are important sources of destabilisation in that region. i am in favour of this report and i support the need to review the european union's action in the middle east and north africa region in the light of the effects of the arab uprisings in the affected countries, the new and complex situation thus created and the urgent need to combat the islamic state of iraq and the levant (isil) and other terrorist organisations. i would remind you that in the past eu aid to the countries of the middle east and north africa has been too fragmented and too slow to adapt to the political and economic needs of the countries concerned, thus undermining the eu's ability to play an important role in the region.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the stability and security of the middle east and north africa region are fundamental to the security of the eu. the countries of the region should refrain from exporting arms and terrorism to neighbouring countries, as this could further destabilise the situation in the area. i also particularly support the establishment of a special programme to support and rehabilitate women and young people who are victims of sexual violence and slavery in conflict zones, particularly in syria and iraq. to this end, i support the international campaign against isil and welcome the commitment of the coalition partners to work together under a common strategy.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. it stresses the importance of the convergence of the fronts in the middle east and the sahel in the fight against terrorism and the proximity of these fronts to the sensitive area of the horn of africa. it regrets that the consequences of such a situation are disastrous for the security of the whole region. it is forgotten that this conflict is a direct consequence of the intervention of nato, the united states and the european union, which once again armed opposition groups from the moment that the governments of those countries ceased to serve the geostrategic interests of imperialism. so this is yet another shameful resolution that deserves only one possible fate: the dustbin of history.
‒ this resolution continues the eu's policy of destabilisation, interference and aggression in the middle east and north africa regions. the text, which does not take responsibility for the situation in those territories, is in line with the so-called 'democratization' of the countries concerned. we know very well what democratization they are talking about and how this process is translated into the formation and support of authoritarian regimes that pursue the imperialist policy that the usa, nato and the eu have been imposing on the peoples. it is continuing along the path of militarization, of bellicose aggression, of securing relations with those countries, trampling on the legitimate will of the peoples and their inalienable right to sovereignty. it supports the concept of a fortress europe, seeking to strengthen mechanisms such as frontex, one of the central pillars of the eu's criminalising, security, exploitative and elitist immigration policy. we voted against it.
‒ the european neighbourhood policy has been the framework for the bilateral relationship with partners to the east and south of the union since 2004. although it was revised in 2011 to fit the very different reality that resulted from the arab spring, it remained short of the challenges and the reality. that is why i welcome the new review process initiated by the high representative and the contribution made by parliament through this report. as the report points out, the reformulation of the enp will have to take into account the impact of external policy on the union's internal policies, such as immigration policy or internal security. it should also have a sufficient degree of flexibility to allow for implementation that cannot be purely technical or totally immune to political management and control. i therefore hope that the concerns expressed in this report will be integrated into the development of the new european neighbourhood policy.
‒ the right-wing majority in this european parliament is reinforcing the continuity of the european neighbourhood policy, pursuing its central nature, the eu's economic expansionism, by exacerbating conflicts and tensions on its borders. the report calls for the financial strengthening of an instrument which promotes the militarization and securitization of borders through the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy; which encourages the submission of neighbouring countries to the eu's neoliberal policies with a view to imposing political and economic reforms; which privileges the creation of free trade zones, which attacks human rights while hypocritically defending them and presents the union as an example in their implementation and defence; which promotes an eu foreign policy which we do not recognise; which promotes the discriminatory and elitist stance of its migration policy by strengthening instruments such as frontex and europol; which is hostile, in particular to russia, on the basis of the energy policies which are in progress. that is reason enough to justify our vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european union's neighbourhood strategy insists on not treating neighbouring countries as real partners, aiming only at gaining advantages for the eu itself, imposing economic and political models if necessary. i voted against because i believe that the eu must uphold and respect, both internally and with its member states and partners, the values of democracy and solidarity.
‒ i have voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. as provided for in article 8 teu, the european neighbourhood policy was established to deepen relations, strengthen cooperation, strengthen the european union's partnerships with neighbouring countries, in order to create an area of stability, security and shared prosperity. today, the neighbouring regions continue to be affected by armed conflicts and crises. the revision of the enp should be able to ensure a rapid and appropriate response to the situation on the ground, while presenting an ambitious strategic perspective for the development of relations with neighbouring countries, in line with the commitment to promote the core values on which it is based.
‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) remains an essential instrument of the union's external policy, with a key objective: to create an external border ring of security, stability, prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the union's own founding values and principles. however, the diversity of the countries to the south and east requires a reformulation of the enp, since these same countries face different problems. a flexible enp adapted to each region and, if necessary, to each country. the union has provided assistance and support for structural reforms in areas as diverse as economic and human development, conflict and natural disaster prevention, regional and infrastructure development, environment and trade policy, smes, migration, security and energy. in the light of recent events, the arab spring on the one hand and the annexation of crimea on the other, the reformulation of the enp has become a real necessity. as such two pillars have been reinforced. firstly, the security component, with a link to the civil and military missions of the common security and defence policy and the common foreign and security policy of the european union. secondly, a policy of neighbours for neighbours in the creation of regional alliances.
‒ there is a portuguese proverb that says: "he who wishes evil to his neighbor, his comes by the way". in other words, when we hurt our neighbors, we suffer the consequences. and in fact the eu cannot, unfortunately, be considered a desirable neighbour for anyone. the report calls for the association of the eu's neighbourhood policy with the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy to be strengthened. but what happens is that this policy is increasingly based on military intervention, in the name of a more active role in the peaceful resolution of ongoing conflicts. this is paradoxical because the truth is that these interventions are the very cause of so many ongoing conflicts, such as the support for the so-called free syrian army, when in this parliament it was said in hysteria that everything should be done to get rid of assad. it was the case in libya, or it was the case in ukraine. in such lands, one would certainly think that "with such neighbors it is better to be alone".
in writing. ‒ the majority of this european parliament - the right and the social democrats - reinforce the continuity of the european neighbourhood policy, pursuing its central nature, the economic expansionism of the eu, exacerbating conflicts and tensions on its borders. the report calls for the financial strengthening of an instrument which promotes the militarization and securitization of borders through the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy, which encourages the submission of neighbouring countries to the eu's neoliberal policies, with the aim of imposing political, social, economic and cultural reforms. a policy that privileges the creation of free trade areas, that attacks human rights while hypocritically defending them and presenting the european union as an example in their implementation and defence; that promotes an eu foreign policy that we do not recognise; that promotes the discriminatory and elitist stance of its migration policy by reinforcing instruments such as frontex and europol; that is hostile, in particular to russia, on the basis of the energy policies that are in progress. all these and many others are reasons enough to vote against.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs reda on european copyright rules. the eu needs to harmonise national legislation and respond to the innovations of the digital agenda by modernising the copyright and related rights framework in the information society. i also supported the removal of the reference to the 'panorama amendment' which could unduly restrict the freedom to collect private images of citizens and tourists. i regret that no rule has been adopted on the collective management of artists' copyright.
in writing. the report considers that the european 'cultural and creative industries' are a driver of economic growth and job creation, a subsidiary reasoning of the commercialisation of culture and knowledge, which we do not see. it notes that some 39% of eu economic activity, worth around €4.7 billion per year, is generated by ipr-intensive sectors, which also create 26% of direct jobs (i.e. 56 million jobs), representing indirect employment plus 9% of the total number of jobs in the eu. the report defends the public domain and involves the internet operators in the problem, points with which we agree. it advocates limiting the use of works, considers private property to be a pillar of creativity and, with regard to private copying, advocates the harmonisation of regimes but does not clarify in what sense. these are things we disagree on. as regards the so-called 'freedom of panorama', we believe that prior authorisation by the authors of the works should not be required, even for commercial use. what is needed is that the copyright be paid to them, but not that the authors give prior information.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the rejection of the epp amendment which sought to restrict the freedom of street photography, or panorama photography. although this is an own-initiative report, without binding force, to include such an amendment, contrary to what its authors intended, would send the committee a completely wrong signal as to which way to legislate. however, the inclusion of several other proposals from the right which distort the original report and the balance between copyright and consumer rights led me to abstain.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. given that the european cultural and creative industries are a driver of economic growth and job creation, employing more than 7 million people and generating more than 4,2% of the european union's gdp, it is imperative to harmonise, within the european area, all aspects necessary for the effective protection of the rights of authors of literary and artistic works, in order to reflect the technological developments operating in this market.
‒ i agree that the revision of directive 2001/29/ec is essential for the promotion of creativity and innovation, cultural diversity, economic growth, competitiveness, the digital single market and access to knowledge and information, while at the same time granting authors of literary and artistic works sufficient recognition and protection of their rights. i support the european cultural and creative industries as a driver of economic growth and job creation in the eu and as making an important contribution to the eu economy, and therefore vote in favour of this report. i would also stress the importance of authors being paid fairly by producers, and being paid fairly and in accordance with the verified digital views. i also think it is unacceptable that there should be a restriction on the freedom to take photographs of public buildings when they are used for non-commercial purposes.
‒ the purpose of this resolution is to adapt copyright and related rights legislation to new technologies, in particular the information society, and to implement the international obligations arising from the two treaties adopted under the auspices of the world intellectual property organisation (wipo) in december 1996. the resolution sets out a set of recommendations for legislative reform that the commission should present by the end of the year, precisely to modernise legislation, making it more compatible with the new digital age we are living in. the report deals with the new rules on the right of reproduction, the right of communication to the public and the right of distribution, which i agree with, and also deals with issues such as geo-blocking, the promotion of creativity and the remuneration of rights holders. a final point to mention is that i voted against the freedom of panorama provision, because i do not think it acceptable that the commercial use of photographs, video images or other images of works which are permanently displayed in public physical places always requires the prior authorization of their authors.
‒ i respect and admire artistic creation and believe that it should enjoy a legislative context that both promotes and defends it. the digital platforms have presented a challenge in that the balance between remunerating artists and democratizing access to artistic production needs to be struck. i believe that a new approach to copyright is urgently needed to address this new reality, without restricting the rights of access and sharing of citizens in general. i regret that it was not possible to vote and approve the concept of an inalienable right to remuneration subject to collective management.
in writing. the report stresses that european cultural and creative industries are a driver of economic growth and job creation in the eu and make an important contribution to the eu economy, employing over 7 million people and generating over 4,2% of eu gdp, according to the latest estimates, and whereas cultural industries continued to create jobs during the 2008-2012 economic crisis. the report defends the public domain and involves the internet operators in the problem, points with which we agree. it supports the limitation of the use of works, considers private property to be a pillar of creativity and, as regards private copying, supports the harmonization of regimes but does not clarify in what sense, aspects with which we do not agree. it emphasises the importance of libraries for access to knowledge, advocating the adoption of exceptions that legally allow public and research libraries to lend digital works to the public for personal use via the internet or library networks, as well as to digitize content for consultation, cataloguing and archiving purposes, and authors should receive fair compensation for digital content lending equivalent to that received for physical book lending, in accordance with national territorial restrictions.
‒ there are several points on which we agree in this report, namely the defence of the public domain and the involvement of internet operators in the problem. the report also stresses the importance of libraries for access to knowledge, advocating the adoption of exceptions that legally allow public and research libraries to lend digital works to the public for personal use via the internet or library networks, as well as to digitize content for consultation, cataloguing and archiving purposes, which is important to ensure more equal access to knowledge. we voted against the part of the text which requires prior authorization from authors for the use of works in the public domain, because we feel that this should not be necessary. however, we do not agree with a perspective that places the users of cultural content as the main responsible for the remuneration of authors, which should fall mainly on the platforms that profit from the provision of this content. we therefore do not agree with perspectives that limit content sharing or with claims that "glorify" private property as a higher principle to be defended. we abstained.
‒ the european endowment for democracy has always had as its main objective to encourage democracy and its consolidation in the world, in particular in the countries in the southern and eastern neighbourhood of the european union. since its creation, the fund has funded over 158 initiatives totalling almost €10 million in support. the report stresses, in my view, the importance of the predictability that the fund needs, so that it can ensure that its actions can produce effects that are necessarily only achieved with regular and long-term support for the beneficiaries. i therefore support this resolution.
‒ the evaluation in the document in question seeks to present the eu to the fullest extent as an example of democracy, the rule of law, freedoms and how, through its external policy, and through this instrument in particular, the european endowment for democracy, it should 'evangelize' its neighbours or, as it puts it, 'countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation'. the mechanisms of 'democratization' of this champion of democracy who claims to be the eu, and in which the majority of this parliament is found, could not be better mirrored or exemplified than the piece of text, devoid of any modesty, which we have transcribed: 'the commission welcomes the granting of grants by the fund to ukrainian actors, which is a good example of the rapid support provided to political and civil society activists who later become democratically elected representatives.' the way this eu intends to "democratize" the countries with which it has relations could not be clearer: to instrumentalize, finance, create, promote in its favor in an act of perfidious interference, institutions and individuals in direct alignment with the colonialist policies of the eu, compromising the sovereignty of the countries and the freedom of the peoples. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's new approach to human rights and democracy (evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy since its creation). i welcome the results achieved by the fund so far, taking into account the particular and difficult international environment of the present time. the fund has fulfilled its primary objective of fostering and promoting democratization and sound and lasting democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democracy with respect for human rights.
‒ i believe that the promotion and development of democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms should be among the main objectives of the european union's external policy, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am voting in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of the fact that in recent years a large number of member states have successfully completed a process of democratic transformation of society and have accumulated a wealth of experience in this field relevant to the activities of the european endowment for democracy, which can and should be used at political and expert level for the work of the fund. i cannot fail to point out that in many countries where the fund is present, the space for legitimate action by civil society and external funding of civil society organisations is being reduced by the use by authoritarian regimes of increasingly sophisticated means, including legislation, which limit the work of ngos and pro-democracy actors, including fund beneficiaries.
‒ the establishment of the european endowment for democracy, together with other eu programmes such as the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) and the european neighbourhood policy's civil society instrument, promotes the establishment of direct relationships with grassroots movements and local and regional democratic political actors. it is the most brazen imperialist interference which handpicked some lackeys, some of whom have criminal records, who are promoted to human rights defenders in countries which decide not to submit to the dictates of the western powers and their multinational companies. we apologize for giving examples, the list is so long. the only truly democratic measure that this parliament could take is to abolish this fund which promotes the destabilisation of sovereign countries and holds europe responsible for the most barbaric crimes committed today in libya, iraq or syria.
‒ the evaluation in the document in question seeks to present the eu to the fullest extent as an example of democracy, the rule of law, freedoms and how, through its external policy, and through this instrument in particular, the european endowment for democracy, it should 'evangelize' its neighbours or, as it puts it, 'countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation'. the mechanisms of 'democratization' of this champion of democracy who claims to be the eu, and in whom the majority of this european parliament is based, could not be better mirrored or exemplified than the piece of text, devoid of any modesty, which we have transcribed: 'the commission welcomes the granting of grants by the fund to ukrainian actors, which is a good example of the rapid support provided to political and civil society activists who later become democratically elected representatives.' the way this eu intends to "democratize" the countries with which it has relations could not be clearer: to instrumentalize, finance, create, promote in its favor in an act of perfidious interference, institutions and individuals, in direct alignment with the colonialist policies of the eu, compromising the sovereignty of the countries and the freedom of the peoples. we voted against it.
in the light of the recent events in burundi, the european union is calling on the burundian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in burundi is not further destabilised. the european union is calling on the burundian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in burundi is not further destabilised. reasons for our abstention
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the parliament's resolution on the situation in burundi, as the country is going through one of its worst political crises since 2005. it called for the resumption of dialogue with a view to a lasting political solution, in order to ensure the preservation and consolidation of peace.
‒ burundi has been facing a violent political crisis since april this year, with the announcement of the candidacy of the current president, pierre nkurunziza, for a third term, which the opposition says is unconstitutional and violates the peace agreement, which in 2006 ended a 13-year civil war. since the beginning of the crisis, at least 70 people have been killed and more than 140,000 have fled to neighbouring countries. in this atmosphere of tension and conflict, municipal and local elections were held on 29 june, which according to several international organisations, including the eu election observation mission, were neither free nor credible, and were surrounded by a climate of fear and intimidation. the resolution therefore calls for the presidential elections scheduled for 15 july to be postponed until a climate conducive to the holding of democratic and free elections has been re-established and the various electoral observation missions have returned.
‒ burundi has been in turmoil since april 2015, when president pierre nkurunziza launched his controversial bid for a third consecutive five-year term, triggering widespread protests and a failed military coup in may. regardless of the real problems affecting that country, we call once again for non-interference by foreign powers, which implies the cessation of all arms supplies to that country and the call for political dialogue between the parties, without violence and without repression.
in the light of the recent events in burundi, the european union is proposing to extend the mandate of the un high commissioner for refugees to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to extend it to burundi, and to the whole of the world. however, it contains elements of interference (proposals for sanctions, reductions in financial support to the country, guidelines for the allocation of these funds, all supported by the presumption of an illegitimate eu foreign policy) that are unacceptable and will not contribute to stability in the region or help the people to determine their future freely and without external pressure. for these reasons we abstained.
in the first place, the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a document which is not a document of the council, but of the european parliament, and which is a document of the council. it is a deplorable historical whitewashing text for what it omits, a human tragedy that goes far beyond the event it reports, and that is marked by the expansionist imperialist policies of the usa, nato and the eu. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. ‒ what happened 20 years ago, in july 1995, in the bosnian town of srebrenica is remembered here today. i pay tribute to the victims and express my condolences and solidarity with the families of the victims, many of whom are living without definitive confirmation of the fate of their relatives. i condemn in the strongest terms the genocide in srebrenica. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the genocide of 11 july 1995 in the bosnian town of srebrenica, which was then declared a safe zone by the united nations, is still very much alive in the memory of the people of bosnia-herzegovina. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. a genocide on the doorstep of europe that must not be forgotten. a historical reminder of the dangers of nationalism and intolerance in societies. i reiterate the union's support for the accession process of bosnia-herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans.
‒ 11 july 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the incidents that took place in and around srebrenica during the bosnian war. we must always condemn the massacres of civilians by all parties to the conflict, whether serbs, croats or muslims. we must take this opportunity to recall the cynicism of the european union and some of its members who did everything possible to dismember yugoslavia, which was then socialist-oriented, in a cynical and meticulous manner. in a land where for centuries diverse cultures and ethnicities have lived together in peace, the west has decided once again to screw up and arm one of the parties, igniting a conflict that would never have happened without the intervention of the usual friends of democracy. history will one day judge this dark page of european history and condemn its principal perpetrators.
the resolution is an ideological piece which, based on fragments of history, seeks to legitimize the events which led to the tragic event in question. however, it conceals the responsibilities and the unquestionable role that the usa, nato and the eu have assumed in the whole process of the dismemberment of yugoslavia and in all the conflicts that have followed in the balkan region, fuelling and inciting odious conflicts between populations, promoting, financing and imposing war, with a tragic civil dimension. it is a deplorable historical whitewashing text, since it omits a human tragedy that goes far beyond the event it reports on, and which is marked by the expansionist imperialist policies of the usa, nato and the eu. for these reasons we voted against.
the s&d group is calling for the immediate release of all those who have been arrested, including those who have been sentenced to death. it is intolerable that nabeel rajab should be imprisoned because of a tweet, just after he visited us here in the european parliament, just as it is intolerable that personalities such as mr ebrahim sharif or the baramit-danish citizen abdulhadi al-khawaja should be imprisoned, and continue to be imprisoned. this in a country that claims to be reforming to improve human rights. it is also unacceptable that the bahraini government claims to be engaged in a process of national reconciliation when it has put in prison the leader of the main opposition party, al-wefaq, sheikh ali salman, who was sentenced to four years. the european union must do much more, and more audibly, for human rights in bahrain by demanding an end to repression, including the abominable use of the deprivation of nationality of oppositionists. the european union, its member states and the members of the epp are complicit in this silence, and for whatever reason they did not vote in favour of this resolution today.
mr president, i was on missions from this parliament to sudan in 2004, to darfur in 2010 and 2011 to observe elections. they're a crude fabrication, like this year's. no wonder that at this moment the regime of omar al-bashir is attacking representatives of the christian communities, like these priests who have now been arrested and who are at risk of the death penalty, as well as torture. it is a regime that oppresses and abuses its people, and the european union must realise this and not enter into manufactured processes, like khartoum, on immigration with a regime that, by exploiting and oppressing its people, actually manufactures migrants. the khartoum process can't go anywhere. the european union must speak out against the last protector of the regime of omar al-bashir, which is the regime of president zuma in south africa, which has let him escape the mandate of the international criminal court. the european union and south africa cannot be accomplices of a regime, they must speak for the victims of that regime.
it is necessary to emphasize that the majority of portuguese citizens do not agree with the hunting of wild mammals. the capture and killing of pinnipeds is far from consensual. however, another characteristic of europeans is tolerance and respect for difference, and there are other subsistence cultures that have traditionally hunted and used seal products sustainably for centuries. it is up to the informed consumer to decide and choose which products seem to him to be the most appropriate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the european citizens know the difference and the european commission and this parliament have also been able to reflect that distinction. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. in my view, in fact, the issue of hunting wildlife should be allowed to indigenous populations who have used these resources for centuries and who have no real access to other resources. these conditions will have to be seen in fact through history, through geography, and one must act according to these perceptions.
i would like to stress three points about fundamental rights. firstly, they are at the heart of european values, secondly, they are the never-ending struggle and thirdly, they are a cause which must unite and not divide. first, human rights are the deepest foundation of the ideals and values on which the european union is based. it is in defence of these rights that we must all work every day to promote their respect throughout our continent. secondly, as the ferrara report clearly identifies, there were still many, perhaps too many, violations of fundamental rights in 2012 and 2013. this job is never done. in order to do that, we have to be able to scrutinise without scrutiny. this report is only useful if it gives us a picture of reality which enables us to identify our areas of action. and third, the fundamental rights in this house should unite and not divide. the ferrara report goes too far. it goes beyond the scope of the union's powers and is based on questionable censorship considerations. and it proposes a mechanism that certainly should not be discussed here. changing the nature of the european union and the distinction between what is european and what is national is a matter for the treaties. a broader commitment should have been obtained in this matter. mr president, let there be no doubt: we must continue to work to promote and ensure respect for the fundamental rights of the european union. but in order to do that, this parliament cannot use fundamental rights as a weapon of political combat. on the contrary, we must look at fundamental rights as the core of the european construction, as the unifying element of all european peoples. only then can we make a difference. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, i do not share your view that the defence of fundamental rights is not a european competence. i believe that this is a european competence and i believe that in the name of these values we have every legitimacy to express our opinion on them. what i do not agree with is that a factual report on human rights goes beyond a clear picture of reality and, as i have had occasion to say, i do not think that the defence of a new mechanism - which was very well contested by vice-president timmermans - has any place here. it is a matter for the treaties, not a matter for a report on human rights.
mr president, i congratulate my colleague laura ferrara on this important report. another europe is possible, she said, and i would add that it is indispensable and urgent. the situation of fundamental rights in europe is illustrated by the crisis resulting from the influx of refugees. this is a european crisis because, by action, omission and inconsistency in our internal and external policies, and also by the prevalence of the perverse neoliberal ideology that is anti-european, we have ended up helping to manufacture refugees and migrants outside and inside, including the more than three hundred thousand portuguese who in the last four years have had to emigrate, not to mention those who have been pushed into poverty by neoliberal policies, including the elderly and a quarter of the children, in my country, portugal alone. that this is a crisis of lack of european values is also seen in the way we are belatedly reacting to the effects of war, oppression and misery in the neighbourhood. if we have a majority of governments and citizens with historical memory and solidarity generously welcoming refugees, we also have rulers who shame us, like the prime ministers of hungary and slovakia, who by word and deed violate fundamental rights and bring back old demons against peace, freedom and democracy in europe. the union and the member states have an obligation to act and to put the fundamental rights of migrants, refugees and their own citizens at the centre of their policies, ensuring coherence between internal and external policies. only in this way will we stop the terrorist threat, only in this way will we not allow it to be used to further jeopardize the security, freedoms and fundamental rights of european citizens themselves and of those seeking protection for their lives and their families in europe.
the european union is faced today with a shameful reality for which it bears a huge share of responsibility. was it not the european union and the majority of this parliament that did everything possible to get libya bombed a while ago? they said, then, to free the libyan people. are they not the same people who a while ago enthusiastically supported everyone, regardless of whether they belonged to terrorist organizations or not, fighting the assad regime in syria? syrians today say they just want peace. the one who lived in libya also says he wanted peace. there, as in other countries in africa and the middle east, nato and the european union have done everything to destabilize and plunder. the consequences are the millions of refugees who, trying to survive, face the fortress europe with its increasingly controlled doors. now, if the european union takes in the small number of 120,000 refugees, in fulfilling only an international duty, it will try to solve only the problem of those who manage to survive and not drown. when will safe and legal routes be created so that migrants and refugees can travel without having to risk their lives?
mr president, we are basically following the content of this report and are therefore calling for the prevention of asexual reproduction or cloning of domestic animals. we also believe that this principle should be reinforced by means of control and monitoring mechanisms aimed at prohibiting the marketing and consumption of food derived from cloned animals. the cloning process applied to agricultural production is a reflection of a production model based on the unbridled pursuit of productivity and profit at any price, and it is this competitive framework of liberalised markets that is at the root of this problem. our support for this report against the cloning of domestic animals is therefore also a wake-up call in defence of small and medium-sized family farming, in defence of a production model based on biodiversity and respect for social and environmental standards.
‒ forced labour is a violation of human rights and an attack on the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. in the 21st century, forced labor affects 21 million people, victims of an exploitation that generates $150 billion a year in income for the benefit of those who organize and manage it. although debt slavery no longer officially exists on the european continent, 880 000 people in the european union and 1.6 million across the continent are affected by these new forms of forced labour. men and women who have been offered jobs abroad are deceived by their alleged employers, just as migrants are deceived by smugglers, and children are made vulnerable by uprooting. labour rights are therefore a fundamental pillar of decent work and constitute the main instrument in the fight against labour exploitation. the protocol calls on governments to take measures to better protect workers, in particular migrant workers, from abusive and fraudulent recruitment practices.
‒ i voted in favour because the protocol calls on governments to take the necessary measures to better protect workers, especially migrants, from abusive and fraudulent practices during the recruitment process. however, without a strengthening of the means and resources to implement it, or without a clear and unequivocal declaration that it takes precedence over free movement or competition law, the protocol may not pass into law.
in writing. ‒ the european union (eu) is committed not only to promoting human rights and decent work but also to eradicating trafficking in human beings, both internally and in its external relations. this is why it is important that all member states sign this protocol. rights at work are a fundamental pillar of decent work. by ratifying the ilo conventions and related protocols, eu member states send an important signal about the coherence of eu policy on the promotion of fundamental principles and rights at work, as well as on the improvement of working conditions worldwide. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the 2014 protocol of the international labour organisation to the forced labour convention of 1930 updated the convention, providing new mechanisms to combat forced labour and making it legally binding. i believe that preventive and protective measures are essential, as is the creation of compensation mechanisms such as compensation and reparation for physical or material damage, such as the measures set out in the protocol. i believe that in order to prevent forced labour, member states should promote education and information for people; ensure that the scope of the legislation relating to this matter is extended to all workers and all sectors of the economy; and that labour inspection services are strengthened. i support the strengthening of the means and cooperation between states in the fight against contemporary forms of slavery, thus recognizing its increasingly international character. i think it is important to stress that these measures should always be aimed at protecting people, especially migrant workers, against any abusive and fraudulent practices during any recruitment and placement process.
in writing. i voted in favour of considering it important for member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention, 1930, as regards matters related to social policy.
‒ in the 21st century, forced labour affects 21 million people, victims of an exploitation that generates $150 billion a year in income for those who organise and manage it. although slavery does not officially exist on the european continent, 880,000 people in the european union and 1.6 million across the continent are affected by new forms of forced labour. men and women who have been offered jobs abroad are deceived by their supposed employers. the most vulnerable are the same as always: women, children and migrants. we must continue to fight to see that these new forms of trafficking and exploitation are abolished. this is the objective of the 2014 protocol of the international labour organisation to the forced labour convention of 1930 and covered by this recommendation of the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention, 1930, as it updates the convention with new tools promoting labour rights, which are the fundamental pillar of decent work and the main instrument to combat labour exploitation. i also believe that the provisions of the protocol are intended to strengthen the international legal framework by establishing obligations to prevent forced labour and to provide victims of such labour abuses with a system of protection and access to redress mechanisms such as compensation for physical or material damage, as well as greater cooperation between states in the fight against contemporary forms of slavery.
‒ the 2014 ilo protocol to the forced labour convention of 1930 updates the forced labour convention of 1930, giving it new instruments to combat forced labour and making it legally binding. however, in the 21st century, forced labour affects 21 million people, victims of an exploitation that generates 150 billion dollars a year in income for those who organize and manage it, alongside the classic forms of exploitation, based on physical or material coercion, new forms, especially in rich countries and sometimes despite the existence of a rule of law. the european strategy to combat poverty can go beyond the mere coordination of national actions and set binding poverty reduction targets, as well as integrating the terms of the preamble to the said protocol, according to which forced labour 'contributes to perpetuating poverty and prevents the achievement of decent work for all'.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention of the international labour organisation - a 1930 document - updating it with new definitions and mechanisms to combat forced labour. on the other hand, the protocol emphasizes prevention and compensation for victims. this report and the protocol to which it relates are positive and reflect progressive positions. it does not, however, complain that the eu has, as a result of its external policies, contributed to the causes that weaken the social relations that promote these practices; on the other hand, within the eu too, there are realities that are close to (or corresponding to) forced labour, as a consequence of the liberalisation of labour relations and the weakening of these relations, the lack of cohesion within the eu, the limitation of its inclusion policies (in the case of migration, for example) and austerity policies. we voted yes.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded a request for authorisation from the chief of the municipal police of piotrków trybunalski to bring an action against a member of the european parliament, janusz korwin-mikke, for infringement of article 92a of the law of 20 may 1971 establishing a code of offences linked to article 20 (1) of the road code of 20 june 1997, considering, in particular, that the alleged infringement concerned exceeding the maximum speed limit allowed in a built-up area. the alleged acts have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by janusz korwin-mikke. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ i shall vote in favour of this report after all the legal procedures have been completed, because the offence in question is in no way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider that the grounds justify the waiver of immunity.
‒ this is a matter of internal polish justice, unrelated to the status of mr janusz korwinmikke.
in writing. ‒ we are dealing with a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, which arises following a request by a judicial authority to bring a judicial action against him, relating to infringements of the road traffic code. it has been established that the alleged acts are not directly related to the exercise of his parliamentary functions, nor is there even a presumption that the proceedings were instituted for political reasons, which is why i subscribe to the position taken in this decision, having voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
‒ member of parliament janusz korwin-mikke is accused of driving a vehicle at excessive speed in a residential area in piotrków trybunalski on 6 september 2014. according to police records, he was driving at 50 miles an hour when the speed limit is 30 miles an hour. this conduct constitutes an offence under article 92a of the polish law. in addition to the vehicle being registered in the mp's name, the police claim that the facial image of the driver, visible in the photograph recorded by the speed recording camera, matches the facial image of the mp. the acts alleged have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we voted to lift parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke, forwarded by the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland to the european parliament on 13 march 2015. the member is accused of driving a vehicle at excessive speed on 6 september 2014 in a residential area in piotrków trybunalski. according to police records, he was driving at 50 miles an hour when the speed limit is 30 miles an hour. this conduct constitutes an offence under article 92a of the polish law. in addition to the vehicle being registered in the mp's name, the police claim that the facial image of the driver, visible in the photograph recorded by the speed recording camera, matches the facial image of the mp. the acts alleged have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we voted to lift parliamentary immunity.
‒ action against breaches of customs rules is essential for the protection of the union's financial interests and the development of customs cooperation. customs regulations may be infringed by various practices such as misleading description of imported goods in order to benefit from reduced duties, misleading declaration of origin of goods in order to circumvent anti-dumping duties and/or to avoid quantitative limitations or import quotas, or misuse of the transit procedure where the goods actually imported are declared in transit in order to avoid the applicable customs duties. we must avoid these practices, which is why i am voting in favour.
‒ currently, customs officials have no mechanisms to verify that the declared origin of the goods is in accordance with the route of the container in question and there is abuse of the transit procedure which is monitored through documentary and visual checks of limited scope. i would point out that false declarations of origin represent an annual loss of eur 100 million for the eu and, as regards the misleading description of the products transported, the losses reported by the member states in 2011 were around eur 107.7 million. i agree with the importance of speeding up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and avoiding red tape, thereby strengthening the security of the internal market and the products circulating therein, and also ensuring greater protection for consumers. i would stress that, given the fact that some shortcomings have been identified in the e-customs system, it is essential to amend it in order to make the procedure quicker and less bureaucratic.
i voted against because i disagree with the council's position.
‒ the commission proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 515/97 with a view to improving the detection, investigation and prevention of customs fraud by increasing the exchange of information and available evidence. there is an objective need for greater cooperation and action in this area, particularly in creating conditions for a better fight against customs fraud, especially in relation to the misrepresentation of the origin of goods and abusive practices in the transit system. i believe that the options presented are in line with fundamental rights and will not only allow for a stronger legal framework but also for greater exchange of information on container movements and transit, import and export data. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ every effort should be made to ensure that controls on agricultural products imported from third countries are effective. effectiveness in this context implies checking the origin of the products so that it is possible to ascertain their production conditions and compliance with established trade agreements. this is the starting point for ensuring reciprocity in production standards and protecting the competitive conditions of european agricultural producers.
‒ the fight against fraud in the context of the customs union and the common agricultural policy is at the heart of this regulation, which requires close cooperation between the administrative authorities responsible in each member state for implementing the provisions adopted in these two areas. it also requires appropriate cooperation between these national authorities and the commission, which is responsible for ensuring the application of the treaty and the provisions adopted pursuant to it, implying effective cooperation in this field which can strengthen the protection of the community's financial interests.
‒ the european parliament and the council adopted in 2009 a regulation on trade in seal products, which prohibits this practice in the european union and applies to seal products produced in the eu and to imported products. the eu has opted for a 'total' ban, with two main exceptions. given that the objective of the new regulation is to implement the wto recommendations and decisions on the 2009 basic regulation on trade in seal products, i agree with the deletion of the gmr exception and the proposed amendment with regard to the ci exception, taking into account in particular the right to self-determination of inuit or other indigenous communities. i also agree with the amendment proposed to insist that seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of inuit and other indigenous communities, contributing significantly to their livelihood, providing food and income that allows the community to live and sustain its livelihood, perpetuating its traditions and preserving its cultural heritage, of which direct trade is part.
‒ the purpose of this legislative proposal is to implement the recommendations and decisions of the era in relation to the basic regulation. it also establishes the legal basis for the co-ordination of regulation (eu) no 737/2010 with those decisions. the reservations regarding the met exception are addressed by deleting it from the basic regulation. in the case of the ci exception, the reservations as to its design and application are addressed by amending it, inter alia by linking its use with respect for animal welfare and by providing for a limit on the placing on the market of seal products if the scale of the hunt or other circumstances indicate that it has primarily commercial purposes. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i am in favour of a total ban on trade in seal products, except in the two situations presented: a) ci exception - products derived from seals hunted by inuit or other indigenous communities; b) gmr exception - products of hunting carried out for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of small-scale and non-profit-making marine resources. as regards the first exception, my position is justified by the fact that seal hunting is a cultural tradition of inuit and other indigenous communities, contributing to their subsistence, providing food and income. as regards the second exception, given the difficulty of distinguishing between commercial hunting and gmr hunting, i argue that it can only be carried out in very specific circumstances, allowing this exception for the management of marine resources to fulfil its objective of promoting the protection of natural biodiversity. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the position that the regulation of trade in seal products should take account of a number of values.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the basic regulation should be adopted by the council in the form of a legislative proposal. the regulation provided for a total ban on trade, with the exception of products derived from seals hunted by inuit or other indigenous communities (ci exception) and products from hunting for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of small-scale and non-profit-making marine resources (gmr exception). in the current commission proposal, some changes have been made to the ci exception and the gmr exception has been deleted. although the latter decision is somewhat controversial, i agree with the rapporteur's position that he intends to implement the wto recommendations and decisions in order to ensure that seal products hunted for commercial purposes are no longer available on the eu market and to push for proper control of the import limits for seal products hunted by inuit communities, recalling in this context that as important as the historical 'rights' of inuit communities to this hunt are the dignity and rights of animals. that is why i voted in favour.
‒ it is necessary to emphasise that portuguese citizens do not agree with the hunting of wild mammals. the capture and killing of pinnipeds is far from consensual. european values include tolerance and respect for difference. there are other subsistence cultures that have traditionally hunted seals and used seal products sustainably for centuries, so it will be up to the informed consumer to decide and choose which products seem most appropriate to him. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the european citizens know the difference and this parliament must reflect that difference. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ what is at stake is the implementation of the wto recommendations and decisions relating to the 2009 basic regulation. the rapporteur agreed to the abolition of the existing exception to the possibility of importing products derived from seals hunted for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources, on a non-profit-making basis and not for commercial reasons. the rapporteur also amended the commission proposal on the ci exception - an exception for products derived from seals hunted by the traditional methods of inuit and other indigenous communities and contributing to their subsistence - taking into account, in particular, the right to self-determination of inuit and other indigenous communities. the proposal was amended by the rapporteur to retain in the new regulation the idea that seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of inuit and other indigenous communities, which contributes significantly to their livelihood by providing food and income that allows the community to live, perpetuate its traditions and preserve its cultural heritage, of which direct trade is part. we voted yes.
‒ the european commission has launched the above-mentioned legislative proposal to implement the wto recommendations and decisions on the 2009 basic regulation. the rapporteur agreed to the abolition of the existing exception to the possibility of importing products derived from seals hunted for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources, on a non-profit-making basis and not for commercial reasons. the rapporteur also amended the commission proposal on the ci exception - an exception for products derived from seals hunted by the traditional methods of inuit and other indigenous communities and contributing to their subsistence - taking into account, in particular, the right to self-determination of inuit and other indigenous communities. the proposal was amended by the rapporteur to retain in the new regulation the idea that seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of inuit and other indigenous communities, which contributes significantly to their livelihood by providing food and income that allows the community to live, perpetuate its traditions and preserve its cultural heritage, of which direct trade is part. we voted yes.
‒ this report proposes new rules to prohibit the cloning of all animal species for farming purposes and the import of food and other products, such as semen and embryos, from these animals or their descendants. the aim is to address animal health and welfare concerns, consumer perceptions and ethical considerations related to the cloning technique. i believe that these rules should apply to all species of animals kept and bred for farming purposes, and not just to cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae, as the commission proposal provides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because, apart from all the ethical issues, i believe that there is no need to resort to cloning animals for food purposes. we need to think about a sustainable approach to farming and not leave our food to the interests of multinationals and big industry. the use of clones for agricultural purposes not only poses a threat to food security and animal health and welfare, but will also have incalculable consequences for the environment and biodiversity. we cannot allow these products to enter the market and reach consumers.
‒ the aim of this proposal is to ensure uniform production conditions for farmers while protecting animal health and welfare.
‒ i agree that the negative effects of cloning, particularly on animal welfare, outweigh any possible positive effects. at present, animal cloning for agricultural purposes does not take place in the european union. the commission has proposed bans on the placing on the market of animal clones and the marketing of food derived from animal clones, but these have been contrary to our reality, since the cloning technique is quite expensive, with a low success rate and little profit in food production. i agree with the rapporteurs that the main concerns relating to cloning, namely the production of germ products (semen, oocytes and embryos) from clones for use in animal reproduction by conventional reproduction techniques, have not been addressed. i would point out that the cloning technique is permitted in some third countries, such as the usa, canada, argentina, brazil and australia. it would be contradictory to ban the cloning technique in the eu, for scientific and ethical reasons, and to continue to allow the import of the main products for which the technique is mainly used, such as germinal products derived from clones and food derived from clone offspring.
in writing. i voted in favour of agreeing that the cloning of animals for farming purposes is a negative process on several counts.
the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) on the basis of the report by the committee on foreign affairs and security (cfr) on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). the effectiveness of cloning practices has yet to be proven, and the suffering caused to animals is well documented. while cloning is not used for agricultural purposes in the european union, the concern relates to imports from certain third countries, such as the usa, canada, argentina, brazil and australia. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ in december 2013, the commission published two legislative proposals on the cloning of animals for food purposes - the one currently under consideration and a follow-up proposal to the directive on the placing on the market of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals. both aim to suspend the use of the cloning technique in the eu for farmed animals, the placing on the market of live animal clones and clones in the embryonic stage, and the marketing of foodstuffs, such as meat and milk, derived from animal clones. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the negative effects of cloning and i support the commission's proposal. however, there are a number of concerns raised by citizens and the european parliament that have not been addressed, in particular with regard to food derived from the offspring of cloned animals and the reproductive material of clones and their offspring. i therefore support the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs to strengthen the commission's proposal to create a coherent and effective regulation which responds to the legitimate concerns of the agricultural sector and of european citizens in general and which is compatible with the wto regulatory framework.
in writing. - science should serve humanity, but within ethical parameters. cloning for food production poses too many problems in terms of animal welfare for such a practice to be justified today. for this reason, it should be opposed outright. while it is also true that this practice does not represent any economic advantage, there are countries where animals descended from cloned animals enter the food chain. on the other hand, the use of cloned reproductive material for animal breeding purposes is also common. it is important to establish an absolutely rigorous and reliable traceability system for the importation into the european union of animals descended from cloned animals and of cloned genetic material.
‒ we are basically following the content of this report, and thus calling for the prevalence of the precautionary principle in relation to asexual reproduction or cloning of domestic animals. we also believe that this principle should be reinforced by means of control and monitoring mechanisms aimed at prohibiting the marketing and consumption of food derived from cloned animals. the cloning process applied to agricultural production is the reflection of a production model based on the unbridled pursuit of productivity and profit at any price. this competitive framework of liberalised markets is at the root of this problem. our support for this report against the cloning of domestic animals is therefore also a wake-up call in defence of small and mediumsized family farms. in defence of a production model based on biodiversity and respect for social and environmental standards. the only one capable of ensuring a balanced management of our territory, the sustainability of our rural world and a healthy food production for our people.
in the report, the commission proposes to make a further increase in the number of animals cloned for breeding purposes, and to make the use of such animals subject to a ban. cloning is a danger to animal welfare, according to scientific studies, in addition to the ethical issues it raises. in this respect, this report maintains its firm stance against animal cloning, both in production and import, and the proposed amendments are intended to create an effective and coherent regulation, able to respond to the legitimate concerns of the agricultural sector and of european citizens in general.
‒ the cloning procedure applied to agricultural production, which is prohibited in the eu and is not intended to eliminate any deficit in agricultural production, is rather the reflection of a production model based on the unbridled pursuit of productivity and profit at any price, whether it be animal suffering, food security or even the livelihood of small farmers. we are basically following the content of this report, and are therefore calling for the prevention of asexual reproduction or cloning of animals. we believe that this principle should be reinforced by means of control and monitoring mechanisms, aimed at prohibiting the marketing and consumption of foodstuffs from these animals. this report goes further than the european commission in its communication, by broadening the spectrum of products to be banned from cloned animals, with some products being left out, such as all products from the offspring of cloned animals or reproductive material from these animals. our support for this report is therefore also a wake-up call in defence of small and medium-sized family farming, in defence of a production model based on biodiversity and respect for social and environmental standards.
in writing. the severe economic and financial crisis that has hit the eu in recent years has also given rise to a serious social crisis that has worsened the living conditions of millions of europeans. as a citizen of a country which has applied for a financial assistance programme, i wish to express my regret by my vote at the lack of democratic control over the measures implemented in this context, particularly as regards respect for the principle of subsidiarity. the programmes were implemented often at the expense of the fundamental values and rights enshrined in the treaties and european union law, which in turn undermined the trust of the citizens in their representatives, including the european parliament. i fully endorse the call in this report for the commission to assume its role of overseeing the full and proper application of the laws in order to protect fundamental rights and, together with the council and the member states, to ensure that the fundamental principles and rights of citizens are respected in economic and social matters and with regard to, among others, equality and non-discrimination, freedom of expression, religion and conscience, the protection of minorities and the rights of migrants and applicants for international protection.
‒ the ferrara report focuses on fundamental rights, which are the deepest foundation of the ideals and values on which the european union is based. this exercise which the european parliament carries out every year is only useful if it gives us a picture of reality which enables us to identify our areas of action. but the fundamental rights in this house should unite and not divide. the ferrara report goes too far. it goes beyond questionable censorship considerations and often goes beyond the scope of the union's powers. and it proposes a mechanism that certainly should not be discussed here. changing the nature of the eu and the distinction between what is european and what is national is a matter for the treaties. for all these reasons, i abstained in the final vote, although i agree with many of the points in the report.
‒ the document addresses issues such as the impact of austerity measures on economic, civil, social and cultural rights, the rights of refugees, children and lgbti people, discrimination, corruption and violations of press freedom. i therefore support the existence of a permanent monitoring mechanism for the respect of fundamental rights by all eu countries. the report deals with a number of violations which i consider to be of priority in the light of the current political situation, such as freedom of expression, the need to ensure a fair balance between respect for fundamental rights and the guarantee of collective security, and the impact of austerity policies and corruption on fundamental rights.
‒ the eu, which so often makes recommendations on the violation of human rights by third countries, cannot but look at itself and examine whether and to what extent fundamental rights are being respected within its own borders. situations such as the recent humanitarian crisis of migrants and refugees and the stance of some member states, such as hungary, show how much remains to be done. it is essential to have an additional mechanism to enhance effective respect for and protection of the fundamental rights of individuals against violations of those rights, including the right to effective remedies, and to enhance the accountability of the european institutions for their actions or omissions in this area. i share the concern about the worrying trend in the violation of fundamental rights in the eu, particularly in the field of immigration and asylum, about discrimination and intolerance against certain populations and about attacks or pressure on ngos defending the rights of these groups and populations. i regret the reluctance of member states to enforce the fundamental freedoms and rights that assist roma, women, lgbti people, asylum seekers, migrants and other vulnerable populations. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
‒ this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2013 and 2014 is part of a particularly favourable and sensitive institutional context with regard to respect for fundamental rights in the european union today. a new legislature has recently been inaugurated and a new commission appointed, in which respect for the charter of fundamental rights plays an important role in the light of the mandate given to the first vice-president and his role as the authority for the protection of fundamental rights in the european union. all citizens and residents of the eu must be able to enjoy the rights enshrined in the eu, without distinction of sex, religion, sexual orientation or colour. although i agree with the general outline of this report, i cannot help but note that there are some aspects which should be dealt with elsewhere, which is why i voted against this document.
in writing. ‒ bringing the situation of fundamental rights in the union to the attention of the european parliament every year is a clear way of demonstrating the commitment of this institution to safeguarding the founding principles of the union itself. however, i believe that this report goes too far, often exceeding the union's powers. for these reasons i abstained in the final vote, although i agree that this issue must always be on our political agenda.
‒ respect for and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international rights instruments must be at the heart of the european construction and its policies. in accordance with article 2 teu, the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, which are common to all the member states. in this regard, and although i disagree with some of the wording in this report, i consider it absolutely essential that these rights are guaranteed to all persons living in the territory of the eu, including against abuses and acts of violence by public authorities, and are defended by the eu and each member state in all its policies, both internally and externally, and to this end it is necessary to make full use of existing mechanisms to ensure respect for, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and the values on which the union is founded.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, we continue to see numerous and alarming violations of fundamental rights on the territory of the member states of the european union. this is unacceptable and the european institutions and the member states must react firmly and forcefully to prevent and put an end to these violations. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal for the creation of an internal eu strategy for fundamental rights in the member states, as well as a mechanism to deter and eradicate violations within the eu and its application in external relations.
‒ the charter of fundamental rights recognises a range of personal, civil, political, economic and social rights for eu citizens and residents. the report proposes the formulation of an internal eu strategy on fundamental rights, which ensures respect for european values as enshrined in article 2 of the tfeu and the eu charter of fundamental rights. the commission proposes that an internal strategy be developed and that a mechanism be set up to prevent and eliminate violations of fundamental rights in the member states. however, there are two fundamental problems: firstly, the fact that the strategy would involve the creation of a complementary mechanism for assessing the respect of fundamental rights in europe, which would require a revision of the treaties, thus making it manifestly disproportionate and unworkable; secondly, the disregard of the principle of subsidiarity, denying member states competence in matters of family law and also in the security issues mentioned in the report, where the commission has limited rights to intervene, as this is a competence exclusively of the member states. in view of the foregoing and as this is a legislative resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, i have decided to abstain from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2013 and 2014 and is part of a particularly favourable and sensitive institutional context for respect for fundamental rights in the european union today. although it points out relevant aspects, and in some cases it does so with certainty, it does not point to the social and labour attacks which millions of workers are suffering in countries where austerity policies are making their way. it also omits the role of the european union in the destruction of countries such as libya, syria and iraq, where the aim is to secure control of raw materials and energy sources. in this sense, the report is a mere exercise in diversion and in whitewashing the role of the eu and its imperialist and oppressive policy.
in writing. ‒ among other issues, this report addresses freedom of expression and the media; freedom of religion and conscience; protection of minorities; violence against women and equality between women and men, including the right to sexual and reproductive health; the rights of children; the rights of lgbti persons; the rights of migrants and applicants for international protection; solidarity in the economic crisis. although the report has very positive elements in denouncing austerity policies, it still falls short of the in-depth analysis that is urgently needed to expose and denounce the root of the problems and the responsibilities of eu structural policy in creating these problems. we cannot yet agree with federalist views that the eu should monitor and sanction countries that do not respect fundamental rights - even if that would be a complete contradiction. on the question of migration, the report does indeed advocate the creation of safe and legal routes for migrants, but at the same time it recognises the role of frontex and the need for greater border control, which we do not agree with. despite several disagreements with the report, we voted in favour.
‒ public hearings of potential members of the european commission are a valuable exercise. these hearings provide an opportunity for parliament and the public to assess the personalities, general approach and priorities of each candidate commissioner and their qualifications. although not provided for in the treaties, they are a practice developed over the last 20 years at the insistence of parliament, which simply required candidate commissioners to appear for a hearing before the competent parliamentary committees before parliament gave its vote of confidence to the commission. although the emphasis is on whether or not a commissioner has been rejected, this process generates other developments such as clarifications and political commitments, a better definition of the portfolios and some additional clarifications on the issue of relations between vice-presidents and other commissioners. these hearings increase the democratic legitimacy of the union's institutions by bringing them closer to the european citizens.
‒ public hearings of potential members of the european commission are a valuable exercise. the procedure for hearings is not provided for in the treaty. it is a practice developed over the last 20 years, at the insistence of parliament, which simply required candidate commissioners to appear for a hearing before the parliamentary committees of their respective countries before parliament gave its vote of confidence to the commission. the hearings are obviously not an opportunity to try to change the political composition of the commission, which reflects the political balance between national governments and not that of parliament. any candidate rejected shall be replaced by another, appointed by the same government. i agree that there is always room for improvement and that there should be an evaluation of procedures and methods and a reflection on lessons that can be learned to improve the process next time.
‒ the public hearings of the commissioners-designate represent an important opportunity for parliament and eu citizens to assess each candidate's priorities and suitability for the post. in view of the 2014 hearings, some solutions to improve the process need to be found, which i believe are contained in this report. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ public hearings of commissioners-designate, although not provided for in the treaty, have been a common practice for the last twenty years, reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions. public hearings of potential members of the european commission are a valuable element of european democracy, as they allow parliament to form an informed judgement on the commission before giving it its vote of confidence to take office and give parliament and eu citizens the opportunity to assess the personalities, qualifications, level of preparation and priorities of the candidates, as well as their knowledge of the portfolio allocated to them. i voted in favour of the report because it supports the vast majority of the report's proposals and reinforces the legitimacy and transparency of the european commission. i would also stress the importance of the principle of equality between men and women, with each member state submitting at least two candidates, one male and one female, on an equal footing, for consideration by the president-elect of the commission.
‒ the hearings of the commissioners-designate are essential for members to be able to assess their general competence, their european commitment and their personal independence, before parliament's vote of approval to which the members of the commission are collectively subject. in this sense, and since hearings are a decisive contribution to increasing transparency and strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the commission, it is important that such a process be evaluated in order to identify the improvements to be made. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, including through the use of the electronic system referred to in article 10 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. i voted in favour of the motion because i agree with most of the proposals put forward.
in writing. ‒ the public hearings of candidates for the european commission are an opportunity for parliament and the public to know the priorities of each candidate for commissioner and to assess their expertise and personality. this system enhances transparency and gives the union's institutions greater democratic legitimacy, bringing them even closer to citizens. when problems are revealed by the debate, it is for the european parliament to oppose the nomination and ask for the candidate to be replaced. once again, the european parliament is at the forefront of defending the best interests of european citizens and of transparency. the hearing procedure is not provided for in the treaty, although it is a practice developed over the last 20 years at the insistence of the european parliament. in this respect, i agree with the report's proposals to draw conclusions from the hearing process, and i propose some considerations that could lead to changes in the procedures, including setting a deadline for member states to notify candidates for commissioners, defining a number of questions to be asked, clear guidelines for evaluation meetings and greater transparency and visibility of the selection process. i voted in favour.
‒ the public hearings of potential commissioners have been an exercise which has helped european citizens to become more aware of the programmes to be developed, as well as of the personalities and political paths. the european union has gained from these hearings in terms of a transparent relationship with european citizens. this practice, although not enshrined in the treaties, has a history of 20 years of application. it is therefore widely understood that this process should now be maintained and improved with the appropriate lessons of past processes, with a view to a model that is commensurate with the challenges to be overcome in the near future. the amendments now proposed are substantial developments of the existing model which deserve our support. the commission is also proposing to introduce two different gender personalities to ensure that parity is effectively adopted in the constitution of future commissions. it is also worth noting that the registration of financial interests has been extended to the family of potential commissioners, thus contributing to greater financial transparency. for all these reasons, i congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to this report and i hope that many of the precepts proposed will be implemented swiftly.
‒ this report, which analyses the process of 'selecting' commissioners in 2014 and makes recommendations on how the process should be carried out in the future, proposes, among other things, to increase gender balance, improve the verification of candidates' financial statements, reduce the number of questions put to the 'candidate' during hearings or institutionalise the 'conference of presidents' format. the commissioner's post is a political position of trust of the governments of the member states and, in this sense, it should correspond to their political choices. in this sense, the evaluation which members make of commissioners must be political and not merely technical, as if it were a job interview.
‒ this report analyses how the process of 'selecting' commissioners went in 2014 and therefore makes recommendations on how the process should go in the future. in this regard, it is proposed, inter alia, to increase the gender balance, improve the verification of the financial statements of candidates, reduce the number of questions asked to the 'candidate' during auditions and institutionalize the format of the 'conference of presidents'. the commissioner's position is a position of political trust of the member states' governments and corresponds to their policy choices. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very important one. we do not follow this attempt to give a 'technical' image (for example, by assessing the competences of commissioners in these hearings) to what should be a political discussion. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. ‒ the importance of technologies in the functioning of our societies is now indisputable. technologies empower the individual and empower free communities. in countries that are still without democracy, this effect is even more evident, as was evident with the arab spring. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's neighbours. on the other hand, new technologies have also given the states more ways of monitoring and controlling. used effectively and legally, these are new tools to combat terrorism, corruption or child pornography. however, they are also weapons of censorship, tracking or surveillance on a large scale. snowden's revelations have shown us how these new tools can, in fact, lead to unimaginable abuses. in a society where new technologies can threaten fundamental freedoms, public authorities are required not to compromise on the debauchery of police or secret services without authorisation and judicial review.
‒ technological developments and unlimited access to the open internet play an increasingly important role in enabling and ensuring the exercise and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with a positive effect by expanding the scope of freedom of expression, access to information, the right to privacy and freedom of assembly and association worldwide. the truth is that technological systems can be misused as tools for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorized access to devices, obstruction, interception and tracking and tracing of information and people. i therefore call for the active development and dissemination of technologies that contribute to safeguarding human rights and facilitating digital rights and freedoms of individuals, as well as their security, and to promote best practices and appropriate legislative frameworks, while ensuring the security and integrity of personal data.
‒ technological developments and unlimited access to the open internet play an increasingly important role in enabling and ensuring the exercise and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with a positive effect by expanding the scope of freedom of expression, access to information, the right to privacy and freedom of assembly and association worldwide. human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and must be defended on a global scale in all dimensions of their expression. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. it is essential to safeguard free access to icts for all. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report focuses on how technological advances play a key role in ensuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i would stress that technology can have a positive effect on human rights by extending the scope of freedom of expression, access to information and the right to privacy and freedom of assembly and association worldwide. on the other hand, it also has a harmful side when used for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorized access to devices and the tracking of information and people. i support the concerns reflected in this report, such as the need to ensure coherence between the eu's external actions and its internal policies related to ict. i also believe that the impact of technology on improving human rights should be integrated into all eu policies and programmes. support the promotion of best practices and appropriate legislative frameworks, while ensuring the security and integrity of personal data. i advocate the promotion and use of free and open source software and encryption technologies, and support for the removal of digital barriers for people with disabilities.
‒ technological developments play an important role in ensuring the exercise and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. when misused, however, technological systems can be tools for human rights violations. it is therefore important to strike the right balance between digital freedom and digital security. in this context, the report calls on the eu and the member states to actively promote the global use and creation of open standards and free and open source software and encryption technologies; stresses the need for communication surveillance to be subject to an appropriate legal framework; regrets that some eu information and communication technologies and services are sold in third countries with the intention of violating human rights; and calls for the inclusion of conditionality clauses in agreements with third countries, which refer to the need to guarantee digital freedoms, net neutrality, uncensored internet access and privacy and data protection. although i agree in principle with the aims and concerns expressed in the report, i believe that some of the wording is subordinating the issues of the security of citizens and the institutions in terms that i cannot follow.
‒ human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and must be defended on a global scale in all dimensions of their expression. new technologies can enhance our freedoms, but they can also be used to interfere with privacy and freedom of expression if they are carried out outside an appropriate legal framework. digital freedoms, net neutrality and unlimited access to the internet, but also privacy and data protection (in eu countries and in their relations with third countries) need to be promoted, guaranteed and respected. that is the direction taken by the report by marietje schaake.
‒ this own-initiative report expresses very valid concerns about the use of information and communication technologies (ict) as a pretext to violate the right to privacy and to repress legitimate activities by citizens/groups of citizens in third countries, and also highlights the impact this perception may have on citizens' overall confidence in the use of ict. it also states that some of these icts are sold and used in third countries, not only by authorities, but also by individuals or companies that violate the most basic fundamental rights, although there are no concrete data. while i think that this report has some virtuous ideas, i think it is somewhat biased, not particularly highlighting the fundamental security and defence matrix of icts and their help in preventing/early detection of potential terrorist attacks against innocent victims. moreover, the specific conditioning provided for in point 17 may be misinterpreted by the third countries concerned and confused with 'ex-colonial paternalism', which is completely unacceptable to some. contrary to this idea, i believe that the eu's focus should be on the defence of human rights in general. the epp also tried to negotiate a text which it considered more balanced, but without success. for all these reasons, i voted against.
‒ technological developments and unlimited access to the open internet play an increasingly important role in enabling and ensuring the exercise and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. there is a positive effect of these technological developments, expanding the scope of freedom of expression, access to information and the right to privacy and freedom of assembly and association worldwide. all these positive aspects, among many others, force us, however, to examine the limits of the use of these same technologies, in particular the impact of intrusion and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries. i voted in favour of this report and stress the need to ensure democratic scrutiny of digital surveillance processes in accordance with international law, through appropriate parliamentary, executive and, in particular, judicial supervision. privacy and individual liberty cannot be infringed, except in extreme cases, duly justified and scrutinized by international justice.
‒ the report considers that technological developments and unlimited access to the open internet play an increasingly important role in enabling and ensuring the exercise and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with a positive effect by expanding the scope of freedom of expression, access to information and the right to privacy and freedom of assembly and association worldwide. it also considers that technological systems can be misused as tools for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorised access to devices, obstruction, interception and the tracking and tracing of information and people. however, it says nothing about the control of these means and the need for such control to be public, as the only way to guarantee universal access and prevent abuses.
in writing. ‒ in the two phases of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), the rules have become more diverse and complex, leading to more errors on the ground. given that the objectives of the cap must be met and that mutual understanding and trust between all eu institutions and national and regional bodies must be ensured for its effective implementation, a more effective and efficient cap reform requires simplification and less red tape to achieve its objectives. the costs of controls and advice to stakeholders and farmers currently amount to eur 4 billion per year at member state level and are likely to increase. i believe and agree that a less bureaucratic cap is needed to reduce the error rate and to create instruments which allow the distinction between error and fraud to be made.
‒ in the two phases of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), the rules have become more diverse and complex. more complex rules lead to more errors in the field. the cap needs to be less bureaucratic, to reduce the error rate, and to create instruments which allow the distinction between error and fraud to be made. only then will the eu's financial interests be effectively safeguarded. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the reform of the common agricultural policy has made the rules more diverse and complex, resulting in more errors on the ground and an increase in administrative burdens. i am in favour of greater simplification and less red tape for the common agricultural policy, which is intended to be effective and efficient. i believe that the objectives of the cap must be met and that mutual understanding and trust between all the eu institutions and national and regional bodies must be ensured for its effective implementation. i think it is essential that the complexity of the systems and application forms for farmers be reduced. i stress the importance of sharing experience between best and worst performing member states, as well as communication between national and regional authorities and their joint work in an articulated and efficient way for the benefit of farmers implementing the policy on the ground. i agree with the rapporteur that a single audit should be more firmly implemented by coordinating the control activities carried out by the various institutions, so that farmers are not subject to different visits by the competent bodies at different times in the same year.
i voted in favour because i believe it is essential that there should be strict financial control of the cap's performance.
‒ the verification of 50 million transactions and other cap controls costs about four billion euros a year. given that the provisions for cap expenditure for the period 2014-2020 remain complex, the costs of monitoring the €58 billion cap budget are expected to grow further if nothing is done. i therefore share the view that a financial balance must be found, capable of reducing administrative burdens and ensuring more effective financial control, as well as fully reliable first-level controls and the provision of credible data by the member states, so that they do not have to be duplicated at eu level. i am in favour of the objective of implementing the single audit scheme with only one audit chain, simplifying the process. i also agree with risk-based controls, where the best performing member states should be rewarded with a reduction in union controls. i would also stress as a positive aspect the sharing and exchange of good practice, in order to ensure more fluid controls and the least possible disturbance of farmers' activities.
‒ public funding implies a control logic that must be proportionate to the risks of infringement. in turn, the rules governing the use of public money should be sufficiently clear and adapted to reality so that beneficiaries and implementing bodies can contribute to the good implementation of the funding possibilities. only then can the policy objectives be successfully implemented. the agricultural funds have been relatively well implemented under the structural funds and this is an interesting prospect. farmers are now in the grip of the implementation of the latest reform of the common agricultural policy, with new rules to apply. we expect the support of the european and national authorities to ensure that our farmers continue to benefit from support, as well as the flexibility needed to take account of this new legislative reality.
‒ despite the supposed simplification of the cap, the truth is that farmers still face an endless mountain of paperwork that has to be submitted, with increasingly complex regulations and control measures. the promotion of performance-based controls can be an answer to some of these questions, and this report insists that the definition of performance in relation to controls should primarily imply the quality of member states' administrative controls and systems, i.e. the efficiency, consistency and reliability of the managing and certifying authorities. we agree that in order to reduce the burden on beneficiaries, operators should not be burdened with a disproportionate number of inspections.
‒ we follow the concerns expressed both in opinion no 1/2012 of the european court of auditors on certain proposals for regulations relating to the common agricultural policy and in this report about the complexity of the supposedly simplified common agricultural policy. what has happened with this supposed simplification of the cap is that farmers still face enormous bureaucracy. we agree that in order to reduce the burden on beneficiaries, and considering that it is important not to burden operators with a disproportionate number of inspections, the authorities should aim to organise on-the-spot checks so as not to subject the farmer to multiple annual on-the-spot checks by the national authorities, the commission or the court of auditors. we have serious reservations about the creation of a list of good and bad compliers, as opposed to a 'black list' which discriminates against countries where small farmers do not have the capacity to comply with all the controls required by a deeply bureaucratic and complex cap.
‒ family businesses make an important contribution to the substantial growth of the european economy and play a significant role both in terms of economic growth and social development, by reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and in terms of investment in human capital. it should be noted that 85% of all european enterprises are family businesses, accounting for 60% of jobs in the private sector, showing a high degree of social responsibility towards their staff and maintaining a strong link with the place where they are located, thus creating jobs in rural areas and less attractive regions, and thus contributing to the process of ageing and depopulation affecting large regions of the european union. in the field of internationalisation, i consider it important and necessary that the commission and the member states provide information and support to family businesses.
‒ the first priority of the political guidelines for the next european commission, presented at the beginning of its mandate in the summer of 2014 by commission president jean-claude juncker, is to promote jobs, growth and investment. the important thing is to create a favourable investment climate for our companies and to foster the entrepreneurial spirit throughout the eu. our family businesses in particular can play a decisive role in managing the financial and economic crisis and in the recovery of the economy. more than 60% of enterprises in the european union are family businesses, accounting for 40 to 50% of private sector jobs. support for family businesses is therefore essential to a successful strategy of economic growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ family businesses have made a huge contribution to the substantial growth of the european economy. the commission will also assess the impact of the aid on the union industry and the union industry's ability to recover from past losses. it is important to move towards the creation of an official european definition of 'family business', which will have to be simple, clear and easy to apply and compare across countries, as it will help to understand their reality and the challenges faced by these same family businesses. i agree with the rapporteur's position, which calls on the member states to promote entrepreneurship education and 'mini-enterprise' projects in schools as an essential element in the development of more entrepreneurial mindsets. i also believe that special attention should be paid to family farms in rural areas in many member states, where they should provide training specifically for farmers.
in writing. i voted in favour of considering it essential to increase eu support for family businesses, given their weight and importance in national economies.
‒ family businesses can play a decisive role in managing the financial crisis and in the recovery of the economy. more than 60% of eu businesses are family-owned. they represent 40 to 50% of private sector jobs. many of these companies are still excluded from financing. however, there is no common definition of a family business in the eu (90 definitions), and this should be the first step. we cannot continue to waste the economic potential of this important business sector.
‒ family businesses make up 85% of all european businesses and account for 60% of private sector jobs. they contribute to the growth of the european economy and contribute to economic growth and social development by creating jobs, especially for young people, and by playing an essential role in matters relating to regional development. most of these companies have a long-term view of their business, which makes them stable contributors to job creation in their local communities. however, they often face significant challenges in accessing finance and transferring the business to younger generations. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposals, in particular on the need to create an eu-wide definition to collect comparable data, the importance of introducing the 'family business test' as part of the impact assessment, and the relevance of member states creating appropriate conditions for the succession of family businesses. finally, i welcome the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives in this area, which promote the spirit of initiative and entrepreneurship of european citizens, equipping them with skills and qualifications that can boost competitiveness and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ the financial and economic crisis has left some 25 million people unemployed across the eu, bringing the number of unemployed young people under 25 to more than 5 million. gross domestic product fell by double digits in some member states during the crisis. european family businesses can play a decisive role in managing the financial and economic crisis and in the recovery of the economy. the european commission's expert group found in its final report back in 2009 that more than 60% of companies in the european union are family businesses, accounting for 40-50% of private sector jobs. however, in the absence of a clear definition of this concept, the same group found that there are more than 90 different definitions of family enterprise across the eu. we also note the need to clarify this issue, linking it to the definition of an sme, but also to provide concrete answers to various questions, such as succession.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on family businesses in europe, as i consider that they make a major contribution to the growth of the european economy and play a significant role in social development. by investing in human capital and the transfer of knowledge, and by playing a key role in regional development and territorial organisation, family businesses strengthen the stability of the economy in which they operate, and are one of the main sources of private sector employment. in this context, the european union must pay greater attention to the importance of family businesses because of the important role they play in our economy.
‒ according to the information provided by a european commission expert group in its final report for 2009, 60% of enterprises in the european union are family businesses, representing 40-50% of private sector jobs. this report recalls that there is no concrete definition of 'family business', and there are more than 90 different definitions across the european union. the rapporteur therefore believes that family businesses play a significant role in economic growth and social development. it is important to remember that they have variable dimensions, which exposes them to different difficulties and problems, which it is important to know and to frame. it also recalls that 'the european commission already established a european-wide definition of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in 2003', despite the fact that 'many family businesses are not covered by the sme definition because of this situation'. the rapporteur is proposing support and funding for 'family businesses', which are a blank slate of existing businesses that could fall under this definition, thus creating conditions for large companies to compete for the benefit of these measures to the detriment of others, thus creating an unfair, perverse and unacceptable mechanism. for the sake of argument, we abstain.
‒ the concept of the blue economy encompasses a wide spectrum of economic sectors linked to the seas, from traditional ones such as fishing and transport to emerging ones such as tourism or the exploitation of energy resources. i believe that the development of the blue economy should focus on sustainable activities, which can give a strong boost to economic growth and development and job creation. particular emphasis will be placed on the potential of exploiting marine resources to develop sustainable renewable energy resources, which can make a significant contribution to the european union's energy security strategy by reducing dependence on member states. i support the need to develop a strategic blue economy planning, direct funding and action plan to boost the sector by 2020. however, the restoration and maintenance of ecosystems, biodiversity, resilience and productivity of seas and oceans should always be taken into account. it combines innovation and new technologies with the development of the blue economy, while at the same time fighting the degradation of ecosystems! i therefore support the excellent report by mr joão ferreira, which in its majority reconciles a commitment by all the political groups.
‒ the report advocates a more comprehensive approach to the challenges of innovation and job creation in the diverse set of sectors that make up the blue economy, such as fisheries, tourism, maritime transport, shipbuilding and energy resources. the concept of 'blue economy' covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional and emerging sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, offshore mineral exploration and exploitation, offshore energy exploration and exploitation and biotechnology, among others. i agree that many of the major social challenges facing humanity today can be met by better knowledge of the marine environment and a better capacity to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal areas.
‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors such as: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources (offshore), exploration and exploitation of wind energy and marine resources (offshore) and biotechnology, among others. it is necessary to develop a strategic planning of blue economy activities, direct funding modes and an action plan to boost this sector by 2020, including specific ideas with regard to cooperation mechanisms and infrastructure investments. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report on the marine economy today, arguing that the sustainable exploitation of the marine environment can contribute to increasing wealth and job creation in the european union. i believe it is important to develop a strategic plan for the activities of the blue economy at european level, through an action plan and direct funding to boost this new form of sustainable growth, which can create 7 million jobs. portugal will allocate 400 million euros of european funds to activities related to the sea, an area that we all need to exploit efficiently. the regional government of madeira is also drawing up an integrated strategy for the sea, which should be part of the national and european strategies previously defined, and these proposals can be analysed and consequently integrated if they constitute a strategic added value for the development of madeira's maritime resources. i want to affirm the oceans as a vector of sustainable development, and this requires supporting universities, technology centres and smes, as well as start-ups that are developing activities related to the sea and that contribute to the generation of wealth.
in writing. i voted in favour because i consider it crucial to focus on the blue economy and because i am convinced of the importance of the seas as an economic, cultural and social resource.
‒ this report makes a set of recommendations with a view to realising the potential of the blue economy for sustainable growth, development and job creation, especially in coastal and outermost regions. it also calls attention to the need to avoid some of the mistakes made on land (depletion of resources, unsustainability and concentration of benefits on a few) in the seas and oceans. despite the constant references to the importance of the blue economy, it is necessary that member states and the commission actually assess the possibilities and priority areas for financing the economy and realise, once and for all, the potential of the seas and oceans. portugal is a clear example of the need to move from intentions to deeds.
‒ this own-initiative report highlights the limited scope of the european commission's communication of 13 may 2014 entitled 'innovation in the blue economy ...', underlining the need for the commission to take a more comprehensive and integrated approach to the challenges of innovation and job creation, including both traditional sectors such as fisheries and transport and more emerging sectors such as aquaculture, ports and logistics, tourism, among others. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is the only way for the blue economy to achieve the europe 2020 objectives in the long term through the sustainable growth of the marine and maritime sectors, recognising the importance of seas and oceans as drivers of the european economy with great potential for innovation and growth.
‒ the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, mineral exploration and exploitation, exploration and exploitation of wind and marine energy resources and biotechnology, among others. to give special stimulus to some of these sectors, the european commission has created a strategy called 'blue growth'. i am in favour of this report and stress that aspects such as the rejection of cuts in the horizon 2020 research framework programme should be welcomed by the european institutions and that special attention should be paid to the outermost regions, as in the case of the azores and madeira. i am in favour of investment and use of the sea, as long as it is framed by sound knowledge and within the limits of environmental sustainability.
‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors such as: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources (offshore), exploration and exploitation of wind energy and marine resources (offshore) and biotechnology, among others. in this sense, the blue economy lacks public policies that can transform this set of potentials into social and economic developments. any measure aimed at introducing commercial logic and strategies of privatisation or concession of public spaces can only lead to bad results.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on exploiting the potential of research and development in the blue economy to create jobs and growth, as i believe that there is a need to combat opacity in terms of knowledge of research campaigns and projects carried out on the seas and oceans, especially those funded with public funds. considering that the development of the blue economy can strongly boost economic growth and job creation, increased investment in sea-related r&d is an instrument of the utmost importance. an integrated approach to the innovation challenge and an assessment of the adequacy of existing financial support to the development objectives of the blue economy are therefore important.
‒ this report denounces the 'short and long-term impact that cuts in public investment in research, development and innovation are having' and argues that 'public investment plays a key role in promoting development and exploiting the full potential of the blue economy', as is the case in portugal, the country with the largest exclusive economic zone in the european union and one of the largest in the world. among other measures, it advocates 'the creation of an appropriate financial framework to stimulate the development of the blue economy and the creation of skilled employment, integrating and linking the various financial instruments available the structural and investment funds (emff, erdf, esf, cohesion fund), the research framework programme and others' and stresses 'the need to promote a better adaptation of the various instruments to the needs of the various actors public institutions, enterprises, in particular smes, non-governmental organisations, etc. and a wide dissemination of existing opportunities'. it also urges 'the states and regional authorities to invest in an ambitious social dimension of blue growth and maritime literacy'. we voted yes.
‒ youth entrepreneurship should be an important part of the policy strategy to support today's youth in terms of the eu's objectives for growth, employment, education and social inclusion, as well as for reducing youth unemployment in the eu. employment and growth are a key priority of european policy and an objective for the member states. i support this report as i believe it is essential that member states pursue the effective integration of entrepreneurship education into education programmes and use the available financial instruments, including the eu structural funds, to this end. i support the need for systematic evaluation and monitoring of the results of current and future activities in the field of entrepreneurship education, as well as their impact on employment and the development of smes. the european parliament wishes to contribute to the achievement of common european objectives in this field by monitoring the quality of education and by calling for the acceleration of the rapid spread of innovations focusing on entrepreneurial skills, as well as the need for methodological and financial support at the level of eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ in february 2015, 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the eu-28, an unacceptably high figure, and although the youth unemployment rate is falling by 494 000 compared to february 2014 , the situation is evolving at a very slow pace. there are high rates of youth unemployment and fiscal consolidation in the member states most affected by the crisis should not be carried out at the expense of youth employment. this report allows for compliance with the official documents of the council, the commission and the parliament, which establish a strategic, legislative and financial framework for the coordination and implementation of educational activities in the eu. the core principle of this framework is lifelong learning, which occurs in all environments - whether formal, non-formal or informal - and at all levels. the most recent document, adopted by the council in december 2014, is the council conclusions on entrepreneurship in education and training. the european parliament's report also takes into account the findings of a recent european commission study which presents data from a comparison of 91 examples of entrepreneurship education in 23 countries. the dominant impression is that entrepreneurship education works as a safeguard against exclusion.
‒ youth entrepreneurship should be an important part of the policy strategy to support today's youth in terms of the eu's objectives for growth, employment, education and social inclusion, as well as for reducing youth unemployment in the eu. young entrepreneurship is very important for economic growth and job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ youth entrepreneurship should be an important part of the political strategy to support youth in terms of the eu's objectives for growth, employment, education and social inclusion. i am voting in favour of this report, which emphasises the importance of the entrepreneurial skills and competences that young people need to acquire while they are in their academic and civic training. although i know that not all young people are entrepreneurs, i believe it is very important to encourage and inculcate the spirit of initiative and entrepreneurial risk from an early age, enabling young people to face the future with better preparation. i also believe that the european union should clearly and decisively support the start-ups that are emerging across europe and that will be key to improving the competitiveness of the global economy.
in writing. i voted in favour, as i believe that the development of the entrepreneurial spirit among young people must include, among other initiatives, a clear focus on entrepreneurship-oriented education and training.
‒ given the economic circumstances we are living through and recent changes in society, it is urgent that entrepreneurship be included in education and training. i see the development of entrepreneurial spirit (entrepreneurial skills) as another tool at our disposal in promoting personal success and social development.
‒ at a time of high youth unemployment in europe, it is crucial that youth entrepreneurship is an integral part of the policy strategy to support youth, within the framework of the eu's objectives for growth, employment, education and social inclusion. i therefore regard the reference to the europe 2020 strategy as extremely positive, since it is based on a strategic framework for the promotion of european cooperation in education and training, the main principle of which is based on lifelong learning. this fulfils the objectives of instilling an entrepreneurial mindset in young people by providing them with sound vocational qualifications and skills, as stated in the report. this initiative report also highlights the need to develop new entrepreneurial skills and competences in schools, with the use of ict, focus on social entrepreneurship, teacher qualification and professional development, exchange of practical experience between schools and companies, launching and managing start-ups, among others. europe today urgently needs an approach that supports young people: their creativity, their ability to manage risk, to manage failure and to behave responsibly, and i voted in favour of this.
‒ the appetite for entrepreneurship is an issue that is linked to formal and informal education, but also to cultural issues. in europe, there is still no established tradition of youth entrepreneurship. there is a tendency on the part of europeans to seek stability rather than challenge. there's also a cultural issue: society tends to stigmatize business failure, which makes it hard to take risks. despite this, significant steps have been taken to increase entrepreneurship. entrepreneurship can be a response to youth unemployment, but it is also a factor of business innovation. persistent, systematic and coordinated work at european level must therefore be developed to enable concrete responses to be tailored to the needs of european citizens, with a particular focus on young people. i support the measures proposed. the commission and the council should coordinate policies and develop methodologies and tools to support national education systems in the field of entrepreneurship education and training and increase the amount of support for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ we are strongly opposed to the second idea that youth entrepreneurship can be the lifeline for youth unemployment. the report considers youth unemployment to be a consequence of a lack of training for entrepreneurship, arguing that young people should be trained from an early age to want to be future entrepreneurs, regardless of other dreams and aspirations they may have. it hides, as is the custom whenever young entrepreneurship is discussed, what the role of governments should be in promoting full employment and it pushes the individual responsibility of young people to learn to be entrepreneurs so that they can have a future on their shoulders. it omits that it is not enough to know how to be an entrepreneur, since without finance you cannot open a business or create jobs. once again, the european parliament is presenting this panacea which is only intended to deepen the sea of precariousness and instability in which more and more young people live.
‒ this report treats youth entrepreneurship as if it were the lifeline for youth unemployment. the report considers youth unemployment to be a consequence of a lack of training for entrepreneurship, arguing that young people should be trained from an early age to want to be future entrepreneurs, regardless of other dreams and aspirations they may have. it hides, as is the custom whenever young entrepreneurship is discussed, what the role of governments should be in promoting full employment and it pushes the individual responsibility of young people to learn to be entrepreneurs so that they can have a future on their shoulders. it also conceals the fact that it is not enough to know how to be an entrepreneur, since without funding you cannot open a business or create jobs. once again, the european parliament is helping to spread the idea of reorganizing work in increasingly isolated, individual and unprotected models, this time proposing that this idea be disseminated to young people from an early age. we voted against it.
‒ culture and cultural heritage are both shared resources and common goods and values, which cannot be used exclusively, and their full potential for sustainable human, social and economic development is yet to be fully recognised and properly exploited, both in eu strategies and in the post-2015 united nations development goals. the cultural heritage is naturally heterogeneous, reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity and pluralism, and it is important to further disseminate and disseminate this heritage. i agree with the creation of a single portal and with the specific funding, studies, research and pilot measures that will allow us to preserve and honour this same heritage.
‒ culture and cultural heritage are both shared resources and common goods and values, which cannot be used exclusively, and their full potential for sustainable human, social and economic development is yet to be fully recognised and properly exploited, both in eu strategies and in the post-2015 united nations development goals. the different impacts of culture on societies have to be taken into account in the decision-making process. it is very important to use the available resources to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage on the basis of an integrated approach, taking into account the cultural, economic, social, historical, educational, environmental and scientific components. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report focuses on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage. i would stress that the promotion of culture, cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue play a fundamental and catalytic role in cooperation between member states. the enhancement of european cultural and linguistic diversity, the promotion of european cultural heritage and the enhancement of the competitiveness of cultural areas aim to foster sustainable and inclusive growth. i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation for direct and accessible communication with potential beneficiaries, specifically through a single platform for sharing information and best practice in the eu, as well as a preferred channel for disseminating existing european funding lines for cultural heritage and a database of tangible and intangible cultural assets. i am in favour of promoting cultural tourism in island, coastal and mountain regions, which offer unspoilt nature and landscapes, local culture and crafts, which contributes to the diversification of the economy and the settlement of the population, avoiding the depopulation and deterioration of sites of cultural interest, as well as the disappearance of traditions and traditional culture.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that the maintenance and preservation of cultural heritage has to be done with a comprehensive and integrated approach, which will not only create conditions for increased mobility and the exchange of good practice, but also allow europe to continue to be a top destination in the context of cultural tourism.
‒ beyond its intrinsic value, cultural heritage can be a source of employment and income, which is crucial in the current economic climate. we need a sustainable development plan for this resource once and for all.
‒ at the level of the european institutions, policies directed at cultural heritage are the responsibility of several directorates-general of the european commission and, consequently, it would be extremely advantageous to have an integrated approach to cultural heritage (understood as a complex reality composed of several components: cultural, economic, social, historical, educational, environmental and scientific) as well as a strengthening of cooperation and coordination in this area. for these reasons, i generally agree with this report, which calls for the creation of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which is able to aggregate information on funding opportunities in this area, has a database with examples of good practice/excellence in the field of cultural heritage, and the promotion of cultural actions and events. i also support the idea of creating a european year of cultural heritage, since such a project could certainly promote and show the real potential of this sector. finally, i believe that we should also promote greater participation and involvement of local communities and the private sector in these areas, in order to give greater visibility to the many areas and regions with a relevant cultural, historical and heritage heritage.
‒ being european also means recognising and valuing difference and diversity. the valorisation and promotion of tangible and intangible cultural heritage is a factor of enormous importance for european integration. it is also a way of deepening knowledge and consequently of making the most of local specificities. it can also be a decisive factor in making europe a more differentiated tourist destination. it therefore deserves an integrated and inclusive approach by the commission, the council and the member states, capable of exploiting europe's immense cultural potential. the report under consideration is intended above all to respond to the needs and desires expressed by those who deal with this phenomenon on a daily basis and who have difficulties in accessing information and funding. the proposals which propose concrete measures to deal with these difficulties are therefore timely. the revision of governance models is another measure that can make a difference. the cultural phenomenon is not, and fortunately it is not, immune to new organizational models, which is why these deserve particular attention.
in writing. ‒ we do not intend to give way to the commercialisation of cultural heritage and the defence of public-private partnerships. we support some proposals, such as the creation of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which would bring together information on all eu funding programmes geared to cultural heritage, the increase of the €5 million ceiling for investment projects in small-scale infrastructure, the creation of a policy framework for the historic-patrimonial real estate environment, which would contain a regulatory framework for monuments and archaeological and historic landscapes. we do not follow the meaning of the designation 'european union heritage' given on the basis of the mere location of the heritage elements in question, since as is known, the 'european' heritage is indebted to many cultures and could also be claimed by others geographically outside the european continent. this designation is based on the development of the fallacy of the existence of a unique european identity and culture, in 'european' values, entering into a particularly sensitive area about which we have serious reservations.
‒ we oppose parts of the report that advocate the commercialisation of cultural heritage and the defence of public-private partnerships. some proposals such as the creation of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which brings together information on all eu funding programmes geared to cultural heritage, the increase of the €5 million ceiling for small-scale infrastructure investment projects, the creation of a policy framework for the historic environmentreal estate, which contains a regulatory framework for monuments and archaeological and historic landscapes, are recommendations we are following. we do not follow - and we question - the meaning of the designation 'european union heritage' given on the basis of the mere location of the heritage elements in question, since as we know, 'european' heritage is indebted to many cultures and could also be claimed by others geographically outside the european continent. moreover, we believe that this designation is based on the development of the fallacy of the existence of a unique european identity and culture, based on 'european' values, entering a particularly sensitive area: that of history, which could serve to feed processes of rewriting history, whitening it. we abstained.
‒ the human right to water and sanitation is essential for the full enjoyment of life and all other human rights. all people should have access to water in good quality and quantity (as well as to basic sanitation). i regret that in the eu more than one million people do not have regular access to drinking water, and an estimated 10 million citizens do not have access to sanitation. for all these reasons, the vote against this report was excluded. however, the right to water cannot mean that water services should be free. the tariffs should cover the resource and the operational costs of the service, but should also allow companies to invest in infrastructure, improving the service provided to citizens. although water is a public good, the choice of how to manage water services is subject to the principle of subsidiarity and is the responsibility of national and local authorities, reflecting the diversity of european traditions and models. the report's inclination towards a model which is contrary to this view therefore prevents my vote in favour, and i shall therefore abstain in the final vote, as it has not been possible, in the field of speciality, to purge the most collectivist points of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour and i am pleased that a european institution has finally recognised the right to water as a fundamental right. but this report, in addition to recognising the human right to water and sanitation, calls on the commission to discourage water grabbing and fracking (shale gas exploitation) and recognises that water and sanitation services are services of general interest, that water is a common good and therefore must be made available at affordable prices that respect citizens' rights to a minimum quality of water. it also includes several recommendations to the european commission to exclude water and sanitation services from any international agreements and, in the case of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) and the trade and services agreement (tisa), the imperative to establish a legally binding exclusion clause for these same services. there is still a long way to go before this is an effective right, but this first institutional step, following the first step taken by citizens who signed up to the european citizens' initiative, is a clear signpost for the way forward for the other institutions.
‒ the european citizens' initiative has been available since 1 april 2012 as a new mechanism for participatory democracy. the european commission has stated that it would like citizens to take a more active role in the european political process, and this unique instrument is designed to allow eu citizens to directly influence and shape the european political agenda. under the rules on the european citizens' initiative, it needs at least one million signatures in at least seven member states to be presented. european citizens' initiative water and sanitation are a human right! water is not a commercial good, but a public good!, also known as right2water, has, at the time of its launch, collected over 1.6 million verified signatures, which have since been joined by almost 300,000. it managed to collect signatures from all member states and exceeded the minimum required in 13 member states, thus becoming the first successful european citizens' initiative.
‒ first, i would like to highlight the fact that right2water was the first successful european citizens' initiative, a mechanism for participatory democracy where citizens have a more active role in the european political process. i agree that access to safe drinking water and sanitation is inseparable from the right to life, health and human dignity and the need to enjoy an adequate standard of living. i cannot help but point out that almost two million people in several member states are concerned about water supply and sanitation services, about the loss of public ownership, actual or potential, of water services, because these services are in the public interest and are intended to ensure that all the population has access to high quality water at socially acceptable prices and to minimise the negative environmental impacts of waste water. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with most of what has been said and because i believe that the member states must ensure that water and sanitation are essential public services for everyone.
‒ the 'right2water' initiative was the first european citizens' initiative to meet the requirements set out in regulation (eu) no 211/2011 and has collected around 1.9 million signatures. the european commission presented its official response on 17 march 2014, proposing, inter alia, to: strengthen the implementation of water quality legislation, building on the commitments made in the 7th environment action programme and the water plan; launch an eu-wide public consultation on the drinking water directive with a view to improving access to quality water; stimulate innovative approaches to development assistance in this sector; promote the sharing of good practices among member states and defend universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation as a priority area for future sustainable development goals. although this report contains some controversial aspects which do not reflect the priorities of the epp, i cannot but welcome the mobilisation of european citizens around this initiative and stress the importance of recognising access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation as a human right which must remain at the heart of eu policies.
‒ this was the first european citizens' initiative to meet the requirements (1.9 million citizens). this is an example of participatory democracy which makes a decisive contribution to bringing citizens closer to the european parliament. the right to water is a fundamental human right (in availability, affordability and acceptability of price and quality). in the eu-28, we still find 1 million people without access to safe drinking water and 2% of the population without sanitation. i am also concerned that member states are losing public ownership of water services. water cannot but be a public good.
‒ in the framework of the european citizens' initiative, which aims to increase participatory democracy, a citizens' initiative entitled 'right2water' was organised on 17 february 2014, which i welcome, and which aims to discuss the three main objectives: ensuring water and sanitation for all in the eu, universal access to water and sanitation for all and liberalisation of water services. the commission also made commitments to launch a public consultation on the drinking water directive, to strengthen the implementation of existing legislation on this matter, to improve transparency in the sector and to stimulate innovative approaches to development aid in this area. the resolution sets out important goals, including the full recognition of the right to water and sanitation and the full integration of universal access to water and sanitation into eu development policies through the promotion of public-private partnerships. without undermining the acknowledged merits of the initiative and the proposal, there are aspects which have not been taken into account by the rapporteur and others with whom i disagree, concerning the liberalisation of the water sector and the observance and respect of the principle of subsidiarity as regards the management of water and sanitation systems at member state level. as such, i have decided to abstain.
‒ having received the support of over 1.9 million european citizens, the right2water citizens' initiative was the first to meet the requirements set out in regulation (eu) no 211/2011 on citizens' initiatives. in particular, taking into account that 3.5 million people die each year worldwide from water-borne diseases, that 748 million people lack sustainable access to safe drinking water and that one third of the world's population lacks basic sanitation, this citizens' initiative is of particular importance. the report analysing the right2water citizens' initiative reinforces the need for everyone to have access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation and highlights, among other things, the importance of the european commission maintaining the exclusion of water supply and sanitation services from the directive on the award of concession contracts and calls on the commission to discourage water-grabbing practices. these are some of the reasons why i voted in favour of this report. however, the fact that this report emphasizes the explicit and organized demands of hundreds of thousands of european citizens was for me a key element in my decision to vote.
‒ we have always supported all those who fought for the adoption of the un resolution and who are fighting for its implementation - for the right to safe drinking water and sanitation to be guaranteed to all, without exclusion, as a human right essential to the full enjoyment of life and all human rights. the european citizens' initiative 'water and sanitation is a human right! water is not a commercial good, but a public good!" campaign, which has gathered over 1.6 million signatures, became the first successful initiative of its kind. the expected response from the european commission has exposed the limitations of this mechanism supposedly created to promote participatory democracy, as the commission, in addition to failing to respond to the main aspirations of its applicants, has not changed eu policy. this report thus reflects the efforts and the wide participation of the citizens of the various member states who have fought for the principles of guaranteeing the non-liberalisation of water and sanitation services, the exclusion of water and sanitation services from trade agreements such as ttip, the non-privatisation of water services, rejecting the interests of transnational water companies and the privatisation and commercialisation of this unique and irreplaceable resource.
‒ i voted in favour of the follow-up report to the european citizens' initiative right2water, as i believe that water is essential for sustainable development, an effective means of achieving the fundamental objectives of poverty eradication and the promotion of social equality, public health, food security and economic growth. the european citizens' initiative provided an excellent opportunity to reinforce the human right to water and sanitation as basic goods for life, and to call for better management of existing water resources, which are essential for the sustainable development of the planet.
in writing. ‒ we have always supported all those who fought for the adoption of the un resolution and who are fighting for its implementation - for the right to safe drinking water and sanitation to be guaranteed to all, without exception, as a human right essential to the full enjoyment of life and all human rights. the european citizens' initiative 'water and sanitation is a human right! water is not a commercial good, but a public good!" campaign, which has gathered over 1.6 million signatures, became the first successful initiative of its kind. the expected response from the european commission has exposed the limitations of this mechanism supposedly created to promote participatory democracy, as the commission not only failed to respond to the main aspirations of its applicants, but also failed to change eu policy. this report thus reflects the efforts and the wide participation of the citizens of the various member states who have fought for the principles of guaranteeing the non-liberalisation of water and sanitation services, the exclusion of water and sanitation services from trade agreements such as ttip, the non-privatisation of water services, rejecting the interests of transnational water companies and the privatisation and commercialisation of this unique and irreplaceable resource.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to greet the commissioner, the representatives of the council, the council representative, all of you. parliament is united on this. parliament has a clear mandate and several resolutions - the last one in july - have been adopted on this matter and we are consistent with our priorities. we are in favour of jobs, businesses, entrepreneurship, we are in favour of internal solidarity and external solidarity. it is our position, our resolution. this has consequences. it has consequences in terms of heading 1-a, it has consequences in terms of horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, the youth employment initiative, which we want to continue. but we must not forget at this point that there is no hypocrisy on our part and, as i said, we are consistent. we've already mentioned it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. solidarity does not live by proclamations. solidarity is achieved through action and, when you hear the council representative, it seems that the council has not made any cuts, it seems that the council is defending the cause of migration. in heading 4, with instruments and programmes linked to the resolution of this problem, the council cuts eur 450 million in payments. in heading 4 it cuts the pre-accession assistance instrument by eur 119 million, it cuts the european neighbourhood instrument by more than eur 100 million, it cuts a poverty support and poverty reduction heading in the mediterranean by eur 50 million, it cuts the development cooperation instrument by eur 143 million. the council is now cutting eur 1 400 million from the commission's proposal. and it seems to me that the council representative was making a comparison perhaps with a budget from 1980 or 1990, and not even with the 2015 budget, and it is good to note that, unanimously, a programming of the budget of the european union has already been approved - the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 - which corresponds annually to about 1% of the gross domestic product. the commission has reduced the amount in the proposal and the council has cut it even further. the council's position is unacceptable, incomprehensible, inconsistent, and goes against its proposals and priorities. the council cannot say - i have finished, but i had four minutes, madam president - the council cannot say that it will spare the lines where there is good absorption. that is not true, because it cuts off horizon 2020, which is very well received, because it cuts off the connecting europe facility, which is very well received, because it cuts off these instruments which are necessary and which are very well received, and i do not understand how these declarations are made and how they are made here in the chamber without any shyness, without at least a hint of redness, because these declarations, the speech, do not agree with the council's proposal and the cuts which the council has once again made.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. we do not believe that the increase in average life expectancy is a civilization achievement and a factor of social progress and that it should not be seen as a burden on society. now, what the expression "active ageing" should mean is not that people have to work late, but that older people should not be abandoned, as is the case in so many countries today. but first they must be able to participate actively in social life, they must be able to exercise their citizenship, and for this to happen they must necessarily have access to decent retirement pensions, which guarantee their independence, and to public services, in particular public health services, which guarantee them a quality of life, which is an indispensable condition for them to participate actively in their communities. we do not agree that the ageing of the population should lead to what is here referred to as reform of social security systems. we know what this means in practice: the raising of the retirement age and the privatisation of social security, to the benefit of banks and insurance companies. what is required for the sustainability of the social security reform is the strengthening of public social security systems, which must be solidarity-based and universal, which means that those who have more and earn more have to contribute more to them and that unemployment and precarious jobs, factors that decapitalize social security systems, must be combated and eliminated.
the rapporteur. madam president, a special greeting to commissioner vella. the second half of the 20th century was paradigmatic in terms of the management of the seas and oceans. the visionary united nations international law of the sea was agreed upon, based on such relevant values as the precautionary principle, peaceful development, the sharing of resources, the protection of biodiversity, sustainable development, the ecosystem vision, the idea of an ocean. but we also see, in spite of the law, overfishing and the collapse of wild springs. in conjunction with the decline in resources in traditional fisheries, some industrial fleets, many of them european, have migrated to the high seas and the deep sea. european countries have developed some of the largest long-distance fishing fleets and have concluded fisheries agreements with many acp countries. it should be noted that the international law of the sea requires that countries which do not use their renewable marine resources must make them available to third countries. fisheries cooperation agreements are thus ambassadors for the european union in maritime affairs. but fisheries agreements cannot be a backdoor to recover the ecological footprint we have left behind. they must be ambassadors for sustainable development cooperation and good fishing practices. unlike other fleets, european fleets today are subject to the constraints of legal frameworks based on environmental responsibility, based on the best scientific knowledge and an ecosystem approach. fisheries agreements are also better developed today than they were 40, 30, 20, 10 or even 5 years ago. they address issues such as the identification of living sources, respect for workers' rights, incentives for local fishing industries and respect for environmental constraints. in the event of failure - and there are failures - the different legal systems of the european countries tend, by very recent provisions, to be increasingly inflexible and efficient. as an example, i would remind you that one european government has increased the maximum penalties for non-compliance to eur 11 million. i am convinced that the fisheries agreement with madagascar, for which i am the rapporteur, can help to improve the conditions of a country in enormous difficulties and at the same time benefit european fleets. this partnership agreement is based on the rules established by the relevant fisheries organisations and includes fishing opportunities for 94 vessels. over 15 000 tonnes of fish are expected to be caught in the waters of the madagascar exclusive economic zone and, in return for using this area, the european union will finance madagascar and its fishing sector in particular with over eur 6 million over four years. in the case of the cape verde agreement, for which i am the shadow rapporteur, i am concerned about the level of uncertainty in the impact of fishing on shark populations, as my colleague mr van dalen has already said, but i welcome the provisions in the agreement for this subject to be studied in detail. the amendments to the report reinforce these aspects and i support them. although i am not directly responsible for the guinea-bissau report, i think we will have to be particularly careful in monitoring this agreement. the political instability in the country is worrying and this agreement should be another factor in bringing the authorities closer together and in the development of local communities, particularly fishing communities. it is therefore important that the commission monitors these agreements to ensure that they are free from negligence and corruption. i think that in the first place we must invest in inadequate infrastructure, which is in danger of being neglected or of being out of date and out of date. these are important questions. but small compared to the big problems of international fisheries. abuse of labour, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, including the use of flags of convenience and the use of environmentally untested technologies are gaps that need to be closed. i welcome the efforts made by the european commission, but i stress, with the same wisdom that has been used here, that much more needs to be done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the signing of these new protocols, or this proposal for new protocols, but i shall speak specifically about the fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde, since i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. i would stress its compliance with the legal norms and the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy, both from the environmental and the socioeconomic point of view, thus providing a framework for partnership for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde. i also think it is important that monitoring and monitoring be carried out in accordance with the protocol and that the commission should report to parliament annually on the additional international agreements with cape verde so that the european parliament can monitor all fishing activities in the region. i hope that this protocol will work well, that it will contribute to the economic development of cape verde and to the rapprochement between the european union and the republic of cape verde.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of fisheries partnership agreements is to provide european union member states with fishing opportunities in the waters of third countries with catch quotas within the limits of the available surplus and in compliance with the regulation on the common fisheries policy and the principles of good governance. the european union should use these agreements not only on the economic side but also to strengthen cooperation instruments and promote the development of these countries in the social and environmental fields. such cooperation instruments should therefore give priority to the fight against corruption of public office holders with responsibilities in the fisheries area, and the european union should suspend agreements when there are political changes that violate human rights or the principles of democracy. they should also implement programmes to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and the sustainable and responsible exploitation and monitoring of local resources. in short, fisheries partnership agreements naturally benefit the countries of the european union, but they also make a significant contribution to the development of the countries with which they are concluded and should therefore be supported and increased. the point is that they are not used as an incentive to fuel what the european union itself has been working to combat: illegal fishing and ocean degradation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing to renew the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of cape verde, the objectives of which are, among other things, the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the fight against illegal fishing, but we have found that the union's counterparts to cape verde are all but insufficient to pursue these objectives. the financial compensation that the union is promising to grant to cape verde is clearly insufficient, as the commissioner has admitted, to guarantee a fair and adequate standard of living for cape verdean fishing communities, to boost the fish processing sector and to enable the diversification of the cape verdean economy. does parliament believe that the amount of eur 1 050 000 over four years, or in other words, some eur 22 000 per month, as financial compensation for the union's access to cape verde's vast fisheries resources is sufficient and fair for cape verdeans? i believe that, in fact, more than a win-win deal, this is a genuine leonese contract for the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction with the debate and also to once again welcome the commissioner who has accompanied us. it is important that this activity, which is as important for europe as fishing, is given a place in the european parliament. i am convinced, and i hope, that the fisheries agreements with guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar will also be approved by the european parliament, given what has happened here today. this is the way for me. however, i think that good management of living resources will have to go much further, as has been said by several colleagues here. there is an urgent need to better manage european fisheries resources, sorry, including that all costs are exploited within sustainable levels. we need to reduce the pressures on habitats, we need to reduce the collateral damage of fishing, but we also need to ensure respect for human rights in the communities of the countries with which we have trade agreements, to promote them, and for the rights of the workers who work on our vessels. none of this should be an issue as the european legal framework already requires this under the new common fisheries policy and other european policies. unfortunately, the european union still faces short-term political commitments and a lack of data transparency, which jeopardises the sustainable benefit and security of future generations. fishing within sustainable limits is above all a matter of economic good sense. support for the sustainable development of third countries with which we have agreements is also economically sound, socially sound, and cooperatively sound. i am therefore alert to the need to respect the legal basis, to follow the scientific recommendations which form the basis of any good decision and to listen to all those concerned. only in this way can we also make a better europe for marine living resources.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are still a long way from a single european transport area, but we have already started on the road to it. i therefore congratulate the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i welcome the references to maritime transport and the need to strengthen the capacity of the union's ports. however, we must, without delay, put forward concrete measures to develop the real potential of the motorways of the sea as an integral part of the transeuropean transport network. i regret that there is a reference to extending the seca to the whole european maritime area without a prior opinion from the competent international body. this measure will have serious consequences for the island regions and i cannot help making a reference here. i therefore ask the european commission to present a strategy with clear actions for the connectivity of islands with europe, taking particular account of the particularities of island and outermost regions in the implementation of measures such as the global mrv system for greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, i would also like to welcome the commissioner and the rapporteur. as a scientist and teacher in portugal, i have seen a progressive increase in the number of women in science and i see this number progressing and being accompanied by a marked increase in the quality of university education and scientific research. in portugal, gender balance has been slow to arrive, but it is coming with unquestionable benefits. however, i recognize that this balance is not yet universal in the institutions and that there are specific difficulties of women, particularly those related to motherhood, which are not yet properly framed. it is difficult, and often seemingly impossible, to coordinate a system based on scholarships and other highly unstable work regimes with pregnancy. we need to create the tools to better protect women, allowing access, especially success in scientific careers at all stages of their lives. there's still a lot of work to do. i therefore welcome and support this own-initiative report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the members who have contributed openly to this report. it was a key contribution to the document we have in our hands today. in fact, that's how we came to compromise, and that was our greatest victory, putting what really matters at the center of the discussion, which is girls and young women. i sincerely believe that education is the best way to ensure that in the future, everyone has in fact, and not just in theory, equal rights in all areas of society and life. some will argue that we are better off than we were a decade ago and that time will take care of balancing the rights of women and men. it is true that we are better off, but things have been slow to change, including here in the european institutions. however, millions of women feel, every day, more or less implicitly, this discrimination. the aim of this report is to develop a critical spirit in women and men, and this is essential for the elimination of stereotypes and prejudices. this critical, autonomous thinking has to be worked on from childhood. educated young men and women can change the power structure of a society, so we should not fear that change. this report was produced on the occasion of international women's day, which has made education a priority and an instrument of emancipation, an instrument of power. the educational institutions are also those that are best placed to ensure democratic education, education for gender equality, education for freedom. however, school cultures still persist which do not take gender equality as a primary value of democratic europe into account. research and education has shown us this across all lines of curricular studies. i am therefore most concerned that young women and girls are still discriminated against in a europe which calls itself civilized and which is the master of the fundamental values which we inherited from an unfinished revolution: freedom, equality and fraternity. that is why i set out, at the beginning of this work, two general objectives, the first is to ensure equal empowerment of girls through education, the second is to comply with the istanbul convention, when it sees education as a tool for preventing gender discrimination. five specific objectives emerged: to create a gender equality culture in schools, to critically monitor curricula and teaching materials, to ensure gender equality in personal and professional decision-making, to improve the proportion of women in positions of responsibility and senior positions and scientific careers, as mentioned in the previous debate, and to promote equality in terms of economic independence. i think we can all agree on these objectives here, despite our ideological differences. we must aim for more than mere tolerance. we reject in this report the idea of tolerant dominated and tolerant dominated. we want to make europe the place where nothing that is different becomes strange, we want to ensure that girls are on par with boys. without them, the idea of equality will not be possible. so even though this is a report on the empowerment of girls, it's clear to all of us that without the boys and men in this project, it's going to be worth little or nothing. this report is for all of us who understand the urgency of protecting girls and young women in a world that still kills because we are women. i am counting on your support tomorrow to ensure that this report is voted in favour. the report is intended to protect our girls who will soon be women. we are protecting the women who are to come, we are protecting the daughters of europe.
mr president, the european union has a mission to promote equal opportunities. all children should have access to free, quality public education without discrimination, regardless of their state of residence. in this context, advancing measures to protect gender equality is of particular importance. the holistic approach advocated in the report is a path that will have results. it is part of a diagnosis which recognises that the promotion of the democratisation of education has contributed to equal opportunities, gender equality and the overcoming of economic, social and cultural inequalities. it also lists measures which could be taken as firm steps towards equipping the union with the appropriate instruments and means. i am convinced that the development of personality and the spirit of tolerance, solidarity and responsibility will facilitate social progress and democratic participation in society. i welcome and support this own-initiative report by mrs rodrigues.
mr president, you have just made a courageous speech in favour of european union, in favour of the union of europeans, and we support you in this. yes, the european union is facing an existential crisis and finally, what is at stake is for us to ask what kind of people are we europeans? this kind of crisis can only be solved by real european solutions. so, do you have this tragedy unfolding on our borders with a humanitarian crisis out of proportion? the only solution is a real european asylum system. do you have this increasing pressure of migration across our borders? yes, the only solution is a real european migration agenda and stronger european development cooperation. do you have these mounting tensions in our labor markets? you need to come back, as you thought, to an agenda for full employment in europe, and the investment plan is certainly the main engine for this purpose. but can we say that all member states have the conditions to implement such an agenda? i do not think so. i do not think so as long as the euro zone is an area of divergence and not an area of convergence. that is why your plan of completing the economic and monetary union is also so important. so to conclude, we do need real european solutions, and for this we parliamentarians need to represent not only the citizens of our countries but european citizens as a whole. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, mr president of the commission, this question of the immigration crisis has one advantage for us europeans, namely that it shows everyone that, not only in this chapter but also in other chapters, we need more integration and more european coordination, more europe and not less europe, and that is why i have come here to bring up the economic issue, which is a matter of concern to many countries such as portugal, spain, ireland, greece and many others, which have made enormous efforts - particularly in the case of ireland, portugal and spain - to be in a good position today, and so i ask a very specific question: the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the european social fund. how do you see this in the future in light of the four presidents' document and now the five presidents' document, the first one in 2012 and now this one that was presented in june?
in writing. in the face of the world's largest refugee crisis, we must respond to the humanitarian emergency. unfortunately the council was unable to reach an agreement to distribute 40,000. the commission proposes to increase the number of refugees by 120,000 to be distributed among the 28 member states, while germany alone will receive 800,000 in one year. there are member states which are in solidarity, but others have blocked any solution and some speeches bring back racism and xenophobia. i fear that the council will once again fail to meet the challenge. we need a permanent resettlement mechanism with mandatory quotas. we need more funds for the member states. we need more resources for processing asylum applications. we need an effective return policy. we are protesting against the council's proposal to cut the budget appropriations which should have been increased. we must also look to the future: effectively combat the self-styled islamic state; humanitarian and development aid needs to be strengthened and strategically targeted (and we need to contribute to peace in syria, libya, among others); we need a truly european migration and asylum policy that includes better regulation of legal immigration and the fight against illegal immigration, and effectively tackling human traffickers.
the european union is facing serious economic and social difficulties, but above all humanitarian ones, due to the arrival of thousands of refugees fleeing the war in syria, iraq and egypt. this is one of the greatest challenges facing europe. we haven't seen an exodus of this magnitude since world war ii. we have a moral, civic and human obligation to temporarily host refugees, providing them with conditions that safeguard the primacy of respect and human dignity. it is important to ensure that all these citizens are registered and checked at the borders of the european union, and to use all the existing and necessary mechanisms to ensure the highest possible level of security. the year 2016 will also be full of economic challenges, with the key being to deepen the economic and monetary union, move towards the digital single market and complete the energy union. these three economic drivers, together with the conclusion of the eu-us international trade agreement, will make a decisive contribution to a new period of economic growth and job creation.
in writing. today we are faced with a dangerous scenario in the european union, one that reveals a weariness of the idea of a common space. the borders have been blurred. for whose benefit? the benefits of freedom of movement are most evident for businesses. but people have to come first. in the agricultural sector, there is a great asymmetry between farmers, who are tied to the land, and processing and distribution enterprises, which, in periods of financial contraction, crush the prices paid for production. in addition, these entities achieve efficiency gains also provided by the market. but without farmers there are no other links in the agri-food value chain, so it is vital to ensure that primary producers are fairly paid for their work. efficiency should not be the ultimate goal, but fair remuneration along the value chain and contribution to territorial balance. only then can there be equity in market share. it is unacceptable to allow cheaper, more efficiently produced products from anywhere in europe to compete with producers in my country to the extent that this would undermine the continuity of their economic activity. if we are not to grow tired of the common space, we must urgently moralize its rules.
in writing. let's talk about the recent news and the huge farmers' demonstration last monday. as reality shows, the cap and its market-oriented liberalising trend, with the gradual abandonment of all public regulatory instruments, most notably the abolition of milk quotas, has not benefited agriculture and farmers at all, leading only to a collapse in the prices paid for production and the bankruptcy of thousands of farms. it is therefore a matter of concern that the european governments, and in particular the portuguese government, which only a few months ago approved the end of milk quotas, are not able to accept the need for a thorough review of the cap and are simply approving in haste and under pressure from the struggle of european farmers a package of aid of 500 million euros which is far short of what is needed. it should be noted that this sum of eur 500 million of aid for the whole of the european union is equivalent to the cut portugal suffered in the financial envelope for aid to its agriculture, negotiated in 2013 for the 2014-2010 horizon.
the european union is facing enormous challenges. the challenge of global competitiveness, the challenge of sustainability and energy sovereignty, the challenge of leadership in combating climate change, the challenge of preserving its democratic, open and tolerant identity, the technological, economic and social challenge posed by the digital society, the challenge of poverty, asymmetries and inequalities. it faces all these challenges and it faces one challenge now that is of absolute urgency. the political and humanitarian challenge posed by the flows of political and economic refugees. there is a risk that the substantive and media force of the refugee crisis will eventually take the focus off all other issues in the state of the union debate. but there is also an opportunity to assess the state of the union by reference to its capacities and its inabilities to respond to the crisis. the response to the refugee crisis is a clear reflection of the state of the union and it is important to tackle europe's weaknesses in this case and also to strengthen the union as a project of peace, solidarity and development.
in writing. in his speech, the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, once again interfered in the political situation in greece, repeating the tone of blackmail towards the greek people in an attempt to condition the choice of the path they should take with regard to the future of their country. it is unacceptable to consider that all political forces should accept what he calls 'aid' but which in practice only means the continuation of the same policies that led greece to social and economic catastrophe. it is unacceptable that he should say that what is needed is to continue along the path of so-called budgetary consolidation when the greek people have expressed a different will in the last elections and in the last referendum. these statements are obviously all the more serious when we are a few days away from the next elections in greece. it 's further proof of what 's clearer today than ever - the eu does not mean respect for democracy and the will of the people, but rather the imposition of the policy that best serves big financial and economic capital. it is, and always has been, the "state of the union".
in writing. ‒ following un general assembly resolution 67/19 recognising palestine as a non-member observer state and the european parliament resolution of 17 december 2014 on the recognition of the state of palestine, it makes perfect sense that the designation of the european parliament delegation working on matters relating to the state of palestine reflects the recognition of the state of palestine. with my vote, i would like to reaffirm the justice of this recognition and to call again for this to be another moment that can encourage greater involvement of the european union in the process of resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict. the recognition of the right to the establishment of a palestinian state is a symbolic act of the greatest importance for all those who advocate the need for the coexistence of the two states.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the amendment.
in the light of the european parliament's decision of 12 march 2014 on the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies (2014/2632(rso), which decided to fix the number of delegations and their respective regional groupings, with the aim of contributing, through continuous interparliamentary dialogue, to the strengthening of parliamentary democracy, i have no objection to this proposal to rename the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council the 'delegation for relations with palestine'.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the european parliament has called on the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. following this decision, and taking into account its decision of 12 march 2014 on the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and parliamentary assemblies, the ep decided that the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council would be renamed the 'delegation for relations with palestine'.
in writing. the procedures necessary for the signature of this new protocol had been suspended in 2012 as a result of the coup d'état in guinea-bissau and the european fleet ceased its activity because it was considered that its safety could not be guaranteed. following the elections in guinea-bissau in may 2014, a new protocol was signed between the parties in november. this new protocol to the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement provides for fishing opportunities for vessels from spain, italy, portugal, france and greece. the protocol has a duration of three years and has been provisionally applied since 24 november 2014. under this protocol, portugal holds two licences for surface longlining and the possibility of fishing for shrimp trawls (1060 grt corresponding to about four vessels with the characteristics of the national fleet). with the suspension of the negotiations with mauritania, the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement is of increased importance and can even be considered one of the most important currently in force, and i therefore support this recommendation for the signing of the agreement in question.
in writing. the new protocol to the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement provides for fishing opportunities for vessels from spain, italy, portugal, france and greece. the protocol has a duration of three years and has been provisionally applied since 24 november 2014. the financial contribution is eur 9.2 million per year, of which eur 6.2 million is for access to resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and eur 3 million is for support for the development of the guinean fisheries sector. the fishing opportunities allocated to the european fleet are: 3 700 grt for freezer trawls (shrimp) and 3 500 grt for freezer trawls (dermaids and cephalopods); 28 freezer and longliner tuna vessels and 12 reed tuna vessels. portugal holds under this protocol two licences for surface longlining and fishing opportunities for shrimp trawling (1060 tacs corresponding to about four vessels with the characteristics of the national fleet). i voted in favour.
‒ the new protocol to the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement provides for fishing opportunities for vessels from spain, italy, portugal, france and greece. the protocol has a duration of three years and has been provisionally applied since 24 november 2014. the financial contribution is eur 9.2 million per year, of which eur 6.2 million is for access to resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and eur 3 million is for support for the development of the guinean fisheries sector. i think it is a good protocol which will help the economy of guinea-bissau, and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the first fisheries agreement concluded between the eec and guinea-bissau dates from 1980. since that date, fleets of the eec/eu member states have had access to fishing opportunities in the waters of that country. successive implementing protocols to the agreement have been in force since then and until 15 june 2012. i am voting in favour of this report which allows eu fishing fleets to catch 3 700 grt for freezer trawls (shrimp) and 3 500 grt for freezer trawls (demersals and cephalopods) and the free movement of 28 freezer trawlers and longliners and 12 tuna vessels with longlines. the eu will contribute €9.2 million per year, €6.2 million of which will be used to access resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and €3 million to support the development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector.
‒ guinea-bissau is among the least developed countries in the world and is heavily indebted. it also has one of the lowest gdp per capita in the world. this protocol, agreed between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau, sets out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation (eur 9 200 000 per year) provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement in force between the two parties. the protocol aims to provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in guinea-bissau waters, within the limits of the available surplus, and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the guinea-bissau fishing zone. this agreement is of the utmost importance for guinea-bissau, not only from a financial point of view but also in terms of the rehabilitation of the fisheries sector and the development of local fisheries, including small-scale fishing. it's a serious contribution to the strengthening of the country's economy.
‒ the main objective of the protocol is to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in guinea-bissau waters, within the limits of the available surplus, and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau, thereby creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau. the overall financial contribution provided for is eur 9,2 million per year, of which eur 6,2 million is for access to resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and eur 3 million is for support for the development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector. like the rapporteur, i believe that the adoption of this proposal should be completed as soon as possible, since this is a very important economic sector, particularly in the riverine areas (european and guinean). it is therefore imperative that the agreement promotes the effective sustainable development of the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
‒ this protocol on the fishing of the european union fleet in the seas of guinea-bissau aims to grant fishing opportunities to 28 freezer-freezing and longliners and 12 tuna-fishing vessels. the financial contribution provided for is eur 9,2 million per year, of which eur 6,2 million is for access to resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and eur 3 million is for support for the development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector. although i am not directly responsible for the proposal for a recommendation on the fisheries agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau, i agree with it. i think, however, that we will have to be particularly careful in the follow-up to this agreement. the political instability in that country is worrying and this agreement should be another factor in bringing the authorities and local communities closer together. it is therefore important that the commission monitors this agreement to ensure that it avoids negligence and corruption. in the first phase, i think it will be more important to support the training of human resources than to invest in structures in the fisheries sector which may be neglected or become outdated and out of date.
‒ this agreement provides for financial compensation paid for access to that country's resources but also for support for the development of the fisheries sector. it provides fishing opportunities for the eu fleet. the economy of this country is heavily dependent on agriculture. in this sense, diversification of production is one of the challenges facing the country. small-scale fishing, including subsistence fishing, ensures the survival of many fishermen's families (the figures vary according to estimates). however, we agree with the rapporteur that a more detailed assessment and consideration of this agreement, its history and its future prospects, particularly at the level of sectoral support, is needed.
‒ the general objective of this protocol is to foster cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, which creates a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy is developed and, at the same time, the exploitation of sustainable resources in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of guinea-bissau. i support this report because i consider it essential that the commission continue to support the authorities of guinea-bissau in improving the system of monitoring and control of fisheries in guinean territorial waters, in order to intensify the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i agree with the need for better coordination between sectoral support under the fisheries agreement and the instruments available under development cooperation, in particular the european development fund (edf). i believe that parliament should be fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol or its renewal.
‒ the general objective of the protocol is to enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, in the interest of both parties, by creating a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy is developed and, at the same time, sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of guinea-bissau. i therefore consider this agreement to be of great importance both for guinea-bissau and for the eu fleets operating in guinea-bissau's waters. however, because the results achieved are not entirely satisfactory, the report says, the european commission should take all the necessary measures by creating mechanisms for greater transparency, accountability and participation of beneficiaries, in particular small-scale fishing communities to ensure an effective reversal of the path followed over the last decades.
‒ the new protocol to the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement provides for fishing opportunities for vessels from spain, italy, portugal, france and greece. the protocol has a duration of three years and has been provisionally applied since 24 november 2014. the financial contribution is eur 9.2 million per year, of which eur 6.2 million is for access to resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and eur 3 million is for support for the development of the guinean fisheries sector. the fishing opportunities allocated to the european fleet are: 3 700 grt for freezer trawls (shrimp) and 3 500 grt for freezer trawls (dermaids and cephalopods); 28 freezer and longliner tuna vessels and 12 reed tuna vessels. i think it is a good protocol which will help the economy of guinea-bissau, and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ i believe that future agreements should promote a more effective and sustainable development of the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, in particular small-scale fishing, which contribute significantly to food security and local livelihoods. i am voting in favour of this report which advocates the need for better coordination between sectoral support under the fisheries agreement and the instruments available under development cooperation, in particular the european development fund (edf).
‒ the main objective of the protocol is to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in guinea-bissau waters, within the limits of the available surplus, and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau, thereby creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau. the overall financial contribution provided for is eur 9,2 million per year, of which eur 6,2 million is for access to resources in the guinea-bissau economic zone and eur 3 million is for support for the development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector. like the rapporteur, i believe that the adoption of this proposal should be completed as soon as possible, since this is a very important economic sector, particularly in the riverine areas (european and guinean). it is therefore imperative that the agreement promotes the effective sustainable development of the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
in writing. ‒ this protocol is of great importance both for the republic of guinea-bissau and for the european union fleets operating in guinea-bissau's waters. however, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are unsatisfactory. i therefore find that this report highlights this situation and calls on the european commission to take all the necessary measures, including the creation of mechanisms for greater transparency, accountability and participation of the beneficiaries, in particular of the fishing communities that practice small-scale artisanal fishing. i also welcome the fact that the report stresses the need to strengthen the sectoral support component of the agreement. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this agreement provides for financial compensation paid for access to that country's resources but also for support for the development of the fisheries sector. it provides fishing opportunities for the eu fleet. the economy of this country is heavily dependent on agriculture. in this sense, diversification of production is one of the challenges facing the country. small-scale fishing, including subsistence fishing, ensures the survival of many fishermen's families (the figures vary according to estimates). however, we agree with the rapporteur that a more detailed assessment and consideration of this agreement, its history and its future prospects, particularly at the level of sectoral support, is needed.
‒ the fisheries protocol with cape verde allows 71 vessels from spain, france and portugal to fish for tuna and other species in cape verdean waters. by the end of 2018, nine portuguese vessels will be able to fish in these waters. the protocol is valid for four years and has been provisionally applied since 23 november 2014. i support this recommendation on the conclusion of the fisheries protocol with cape verde, because with this protocol we are strengthening cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. we also contribute to better management and conservation of fisheries resources by providing financial support for the implementation of programmes adopted at national level by the partner country, particularly in the field of control and combating illegal fishing.
‒ the fisheries protocol with cape verde allows 71 vessels from spain, france and portugal to fish for tuna and other species in cape verdean waters. by the end of 2018, nine portuguese vessels (seven surface longliners and two tuna seiners) will be able to fish in these waters. the protocol is valid for four years and has been provisionally applied since 23 december 2014. the fishing opportunities are distributed among 28 purse seiners (the same as in the previous protocol 2011-2014), 30 surface longliners (previously 35) and 13 reed tuna vessels (11 in the previous protocol). the estimated value of the protocol for the four years is eur 3,300,000. this amount comprises eur 1 050 000 as financial compensation for access to resources; eur 1 050 000 as support for the development of cape verde's sectoral fisheries policy and eur 1 200 000 for the payment of fees due by shipowners. i voted in favour.
‒ this protocol is not only an important instrument for the development of cape verde, but is also crucial for the fishing fleets of the member states. i regret, however, that the commission has not included in the protocol accurate information on catches or on existing stocks and resources, or that it does not give priority to the country's options and/or priorities.
‒ the fisheries protocol with cape verde allows 71 vessels from spain, france and portugal to fish for tuna and other species in cape verdean waters. by the end of 2018, nine portuguese vessels (seven surface longliners and two tuna seiners) will be able to fish in these waters. the protocol is valid for four years and has been provisionally applied since 23 december 2014. the estimated value of the protocol for the four years is eur 3 300 000. this amount comprises eur 1 050 000 as financial compensation for access to resources (eur 550 000 for the first two years and eur 500 000 for the following two years); eur 1 050 000 as support for the development of cape verde's sectoral fisheries policy; and eur 1 200 000 for the payment of fees due by shipowners. i think it is a good protocol which will help the cape verdean economy to grow, hence my vote in favour.
‒ the protocol to the agreement aims above all to provide european union vessels with the possibility of fishing in the fishing zones of the republic of cape verde, in compliance with the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). i approve this report which provides for fishing opportunities for 28 purse seiners (previously 28), 30 surface longliners (previously 35) and 13 reed tuna vessels (previously 11). it should also be noted that cape verde will receive financial compensation of € 3,300,000 over the next four years, to be used for the development of the republic of cape verde's sectoral fisheries policy and the payment of fees due by shipowners.
‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde, on the understanding that it contributes to strengthening cooperation between the parties, safeguarding their mutual interests and creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde.
‒ this memorandum of understanding aims above all to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the republic of cape verde's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
‒ the protocol authorising fishing in cape verde by the european union fleet, for which i am the shadow rapporteur, provides for the opening of the waters of this country to 28 purse seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners. in return, the european union will pay the republic of cape verde eur 3.3 million during the period of validity of the agreement. in this particular agreement i am concerned about the level of uncertainty about the impact of fisheries on shark populations, but i welcome the provisions in the agreement for this issue to be studied in detail. i think that this is an agreement which benefits both parties, and i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation approving this agreement.
‒ this agreement provides for financial compensation paid for access to that country's resources but also for support for the development of the fisheries sector. it provides fishing opportunities for the eu fleet. the economy of this country is heavily dependent on agriculture. in this sense, diversification of production is one of the challenges facing the country. small-scale fishing, including subsistence fishing, ensures the survival of many fishermen's families (the figures vary according to estimates). however, we agree with the rapporteur that an assessment is needed and will consider this agreement in greater detail, its history and its future prospects, particularly at the level of sectoral support.
‒ this protocol aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde by creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, in the interests of both parties. i support this report because the fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde is in line with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy, both from an environmental and a socioeconomic point of view. i think it is essential that the commission should forward to parliament the minutes and conclusions of the meetings of the joint committee provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement and the multiannual sectoral programme mentioned in the new protocol. in addition, the commission should assess whether vessels operating under this protocol comply with the relevant information requirements.
‒ the partnership agreement will contribute to better management and conservation of fisheries resources through sectoral financial support for the implementation of programmes adopted at national level, in particular on the control and combating of illegal fishing. in addition, projects are planned which will benefit local fishermen in terms of safety and general training, and i agree with that. another point to be noted concerns the creation of a monitoring mechanism for shark catches. if these catches exceed the threshold of 30% of the reference tonnage, the monitoring should be reinforced. if they exceed the 40% threshold, additional management measures should be adopted.
in writing. - i voted in favour because this report addresses the need to provide the european parliament with full information on the implementation of the agreement one year before its end and with supplementary information at all stages of the process relating to the protocol or its possible renewal. the report also stresses the need for a win-win approach and the need for sustainable resource management.
‒ the fisheries protocol with cape verde allows 71 vessels from spain, france and portugal to fish for tuna and other species in cape verdean waters. by the end of 2018, nine portuguese vessels (seven surface longliners and two tuna seiners) will be able to fish in these waters. the protocol is valid for four years and has been provisionally applied since 23 december 2014. the estimated value of the protocol for the four years is eur 3 300 000. this amount comprises eur 1 050 000 as financial compensation for access to resources (eur 550 000 for the first two years and eur 500 000 for the following two years); eur 1 050 000 as support for the development of cape verde's sectoral fisheries policy and eur 1 200 000 for the payment of fees due by shipowners. i think it is a good protocol which will help the cape verdean economy to grow, hence my vote in favour.
‒ the general objective of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde by contributing to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources in the republic of cape verde's fishing zone. i am voting in favour of this agreement which is of strategic importance to european fishing communities as it will give them greater opportunities to fish for a number of shark species, as they account for 99% of the total catch. i also believe that the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) must be safeguarded, both from an environmental and a socioeconomic point of view.
‒ the new fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde is intended to strengthen cooperation between the parties, laying the foundations for the development of a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy in cape verde, both from an environmental and socioeconomic point of view. in this context, the importance of the new monitoring mechanism envisaged by the parties to ensure compliance with the shark catch thresholds should be underlined. the parliament also expressed its concern to ensure that the implementation of the protocol is monitored, particularly as regards sectoral support, and that all fishing activities in the region are monitored, including those carried out in the context of support programmes initiated by other development partners. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as the report voted on today underlines, i welcome the fact that this new fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde is being adopted in line with the sustainability measures provided for in the new common fisheries policy, both from an environmental and socio-economic point of view. i am particularly concerned about the level of uncertainty about the impact of fishing on shark populations, but i think it is right that the protocol provides for this to be studied in detail. in addition to the report, the amendment to the proposal for a report which reinforces the concern about shark populations also had my support.
‒ this agreement provides for financial compensation paid for access to that country's resources but also for support for the development of the fisheries sector. it provides fishing opportunities for the eu fleet. the economy of this country is heavily dependent on agriculture. in this sense, diversification of production is one of the challenges facing the country. small-scale fishing, including subsistence fishing, ensures the survival of many fishermen's families (the figures vary according to estimates). however, we agree with the rapporteur that an assessment is needed and will consider this agreement in greater detail, its history and its future prospects, particularly at the level of sectoral support.
‒ this protocol between the european union and the republic of madagascar is in the interest of the eu, the government of the republic of madagascar and the shipowners. the new fisheries protocol between the eu and madagascar, which has been provisionally applied since 1 january, will run for four years and includes opportunities for 94 vessels from spain, france, italy and portugal. in return for the use of this fishing zone, the european union will finance the fishing industry of the republic of madagascar with approximately eur 6 107 500 during the period of validity of this protocol. the commission should verify the fairness of the protocol, including the sharing of benefits generated by european shipowners.
‒ the new eu-madagascar fisheries protocol, provisionally applied since 1 january, runs for four years and includes fishing opportunities for 94 vessels (40 purse seiners and 54 longliners of various sizes) from spain, france, italy and portugal. the eu will finance the malagasy fisheries sector with around €700,000 per year, plus a general counterpart of around €866,250 in the first two years of the protocol and €787,500 in the last two years. in total, the agreement provides for the eu to provide madagascar with eur 6 107 500 over the four years. i voted in favour.
‒ the new tuna fisheries protocol between the eu and madagascar, provisionally applied since 1 january, runs for four years and includes fishing opportunities for 94 vessels (40 purse seiners and 54 longliners of various sizes) from spain, france, italy and portugal. the eu will finance the malagasy fisheries sector with around €700,000 per year, plus a general counterpart of around €866,250 in the first two years of the protocol and €787,500 in the last two years. in total, the agreement provides for the eu to provide madagascar with eur 6 107 500 over the four years. i think this is a good protocol which will help the economy of madagascar to grow, and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar is based on the rules established under the indian ocean tuna commission's management mandate and other internationally accepted rules. i am voting in favour of this report which includes fishing opportunities for 94 vessels, 40 of which are purse seiners and 54 longliners of various sizes. a catch of 15 750 tonnes of fish is foreseen in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of madagascar. i would also like to stress the european union's contribution to the use of this fishing area, in the form of funding the fishing industry of the republic of madagascar to the tune of some eur 700 000 per year and a general contribution of some eur 866 250 for the first two years of the agreement and eur 787 500 for the last two years. in total, the agreement provides for the european union to provide the republic of madagascar with eur 6 107 500 over the four years of the partnership agreement.
‒ the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar includes fishing opportunities for 94 vessels, 40 of which are purse seiners and 54 longliners of various sizes. a catch of 15 750 tonnes of fish is foreseen in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of madagascar. in return for the use of this fishing area, the european union will finance the fishing industry of the republic of madagascar with some eur 700 000 per year and a general contribution of some eur 866 250 for the first two years of the agreement and eur 787 500 for the last two years. in total, the agreement provides for the european union to pay the republic of madagascar eur 6 107 500 over the four years of its validity. since i consider that it deserves a generally positive assessment, while safeguarding the interests of the parties, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of madagascar setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in madagascar's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties. this is an opportunity to boost economic growth, improve the human rights situation and the conditions of workers, especially women, and eradicate illegal child labour in this field.
‒ the main objective of the protocol of agreement is to grant fishing opportunities to eu vessels in the fishing zone of the republic of madagascar. i believe that the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and the republic of madagascar through the creation of a partnership framework will make it possible to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fishery resources in the interests of both parties, since it specifies the target species, the expected value of the fish, the amounts to be invested and the overall expected return. the protocol will also serve to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with eu vessels and to supply the eu market with quality fish products. the annual financial contribution shall be eur 1 566 250 for each of the first two years of the protocol and eur 1 487 500 for each of the following two years. this support meets the objectives of the national fisheries policy and in particular the needs of the republic of madagascar in the fight against illegal fishing. in this sense, and as in the other agreements voted on today, i cast my vote in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the protocol on fishing off the coast of madagascar should be approved. this partnership protocol is based on the rules established by the relevant fisheries organisations and includes fishing opportunities for 94 vessels. over 15 000 tonnes of fish are expected to be caught in the waters of the malagasy exclusive economic zone. in return for the use of this area, the european union will finance madagascar and its fishing industry in particular with more than €6 million over four years. this protocol will have environmental concerns, including the cessation of fishing in the event of shark overfishing. activities will be monitored both through a campaign of observers and by using remote tracking instruments. although not a perfect solution, given the poor coverage of the programme, it will contribute to a better understanding of fisheries, the populations of target species and the inventory of impacts on ancillary species and habitats. i am convinced that the fisheries protocol with madagascar can help to improve conditions in a country in great difficulty and at the same time benefit european fleets.
‒ this agreement provides for financial compensation paid for access to that country's resources but also for support for the development of the fisheries sector. it provides fishing opportunities for the eu fleet. the economy of this country is heavily dependent on agriculture. in this sense, diversification of production is one of the challenges facing the country. small-scale fishing, including subsistence fishing, ensures the survival of many fishermen's families (the figures vary according to estimates). however, we agree with the rapporteur that an assessment is needed and will consider this agreement in greater detail, its history and future prospects, particularly at the level of sectoral support.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of human rights, the european union is proposing to extend the scope of the convention to include the rights of minorities, including the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. after a decade of negotiations concluded at the 9th wto ministerial conference, this agreement is the most important outcome of the doha development round, and is the first agreement since the establishment of the wto that makes the multilateral system able to respond to the concerns of developing countries. i welcome the fact that this new agreement will enable developing and least developed countries to categorize commitments and set a timetable for their implementation, linking the application of certain disciplines to the provision of technical assistance and calling for joint action by donor countries and development aid providers (as well as developing and least developed countries in the wto) to support the latter in implementing certain provisions of the agreement. i hope that the agreement will be ratified quickly after approval by two thirds of the 160 wto members who agreed to its conclusion in the doha declaration.
‒ the agreement demonstrates that it can be innovative in recognising differences between countries in the capacity to implement, by asking developing and least-developed countries to define when they will implement the specific provisions contained in the agreement and by linking the application of some disciplines to the provision of technical assistance by developed countries. the provision of technical assistance by donor countries to developing and least developed countries through an assistance mechanism is an essential aspect of the trade facilitation agreement. the world bank has set up a fund for middle-income countries and can disburse up to €30 million a year, a third of which comes from the eu. the eu has committed to disbursing over eur 400 million in assistance over a five-year period. in addition, the world bank and unctad have also allocated funds for this purpose, alongside the member states. i voted in favour.
‒ the main objectives of the trade facilitation agreement are to simplify customs procedures and to ensure that trade flows are as smooth and predictable as possible. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the trade facilitation agreement (tfa), concluded in december 2013, is the first multilateral agreement concluded since the wto was established in 1995. the tfa is a groundbreaking agreement. in addition to being the first multilateral agreement on the new standards ever negotiated since the establishment of the wto almost twenty years ago, it set a pioneering approach by allowing developing and least developed countries to categorize commitments and set a timetable for their implementation, by linking the application of some disciplines to the provision of technical assistance, by calling for joint action by wto member countries to support the implementation of some provisions of the agreement, and by incorporating a group of experts to assess a member's situation once the application periods expire. i agree that the tfa is notable for its recognition of differences between countries in the capacity to implement it, by asking developing and least-developed countries to define when they will implement the specific provisions contained in it and by linking the application of some disciplines to the provision of technical assistance by developed countries.
‒ after almost a decade of negotiations, the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) was finally concluded at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013. this is a ground-breaking agreement, not only because it is the first multilateral agreement to be concluded since the establishment of the wto in 1995, but also because it is a pioneering approach to addressing the concerns of developing countries and the least developed countries in the wto. for this reason, and also taking into account the beneficial effects which the fta is intended to achieve in terms of improving and modernising customs regimes, increasing and speeding up trade and enhancing transparency and cooperation between customs authorities, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation.
‒ the wto trade facilitation agreement is the first multilateral agreement since the establishment of the wto 20 years ago and is considered the most important outcome of the doha development round, as it is seen as a breakthrough in the ability of the multilateral trading system to respond to the concerns of developing countries. this agreement, once implemented, will bring significant trade benefits worldwide and boost global economic growth by accelerating the cross-border movement of goods, ensuring fluidity and predictability of trade flows. it will also require greater transparency and cooperation between customs authorities. i would also like to highlight as a very positive aspect the removal of administrative barriers which will contribute not only to a reduction in costs but also to a better integration of developing countries and their companies in regional and global value chains, allowing them to benefit more from international trade. i am clearly in favour of this proposal and hope that this agreement will be ratified quickly by two-thirds of the 160 wto members so that it can enter into force.
‒ we regret that the bali ministerial conference did not address issues of solidarity and mutual respect between peoples, aiming at truly balanced and mutually beneficial trade relations, which do not exploit the resources (natural, cultural and labour) of the least developed countries in favour of the developed countries. in our view, a fair agreement should necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', should guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, should safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, as well as respect cultural diversity.
‒ the report deals with the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto), following its 9th ministerial conference in bali in december 2013, at which the 160 members concluded negotiations on the trade facilitation agreement, which is the first multilateral agreement since its creation in 1995 to establish a model for customs modernisation. it is regrettable that the bali ministerial conference did not address issues of solidarity and mutual respect between peoples, aimed at genuinely balanced and mutually beneficial trade relations, which do not plunder the least developed countries of their resources (natural, cultural and labour) in favour of the developed countries. a fair agreement must necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, and respect cultural diversity. we therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013, the 160 wto members concluded negotiations on the trade facilitation agreement, which is an important milestone as it is the first multilateral agreement since the establishment of the wto that sets a model for customs modernisation among the 161 wto members, providing benefits to developing countries and creating a more favourable environment for businesses, in particular smes. the implementation of this agreement will lead to the harmonisation and simplification of trade-related procedures, including in developing countries, by providing for special and differential treatment, whereby developing countries and least developed countries can decide in what circumstances the different provisions will be applied and which will require technical assistance. i support this report which is in line with what the european parliament and the eu have long advocated in promoting free, fair and open trade, which is balanced and mutually beneficial for all, and the wto is obviously the stage par excellence to pursue and reaffirm these principles.
‒ trade facilitation is primarily the responsibility of national authorities, but there is no doubt that in many areas multilateral cooperation can increase profits and reduce costs. the wto's trade facilitation agreement therefore needs to be ratified by two-thirds of wto members to enter into force. the benefits to developing countries of implementing this agreement, as it will help create a more favourable environment for business, in particular for smes, are clear and, if fully implemented, should reduce uncertainty about market entry conditions and trade costs by between 12.5% and 17.5%. i welcome the implementation of this agreement, particularly in developing countries, as it will lead to the harmonization and simplification of trade-related procedures.
‒ trade facilitation is primarily the responsibility of national authorities, but there is no doubt that in many areas multilateral cooperation can increase profits and reduce costs. the implementation of this agreement, in particular in developing countries, will lead to the harmonisation and simplification of trade-related procedures, and this agreement may provide new opportunities to disseminate the use of innovative technologies and electronic systems, including electronic payment systems, national trade portals and one-stop shops. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european union is committed to promoting free, fair and open trade, which is balanced and mutually beneficial for all. the world trade organisation is the natural framework for pursuing and reaffirming these principles. i agree that there is still a wide gap between the border procedures of developed and developing countries and that fragile infrastructure, inefficient customs management and excessive bureaucracy are hindering trade. i believe that the swift and comprehensive implementation of the agreement is in the interest of all wto members, given the measurable benefits and particularly the expected reduction in trade costs.
‒ the eu is committed to promoting free trade, which is balanced and mutually beneficial for all. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the conclusion of the trade facilitation agreement at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013. this agreement is an important milestone not only because it is the first multilateral agreement to be concluded since the establishment of the wto in 1995, but also because it will contribute to the modernisation of customs regimes and represent a step forward in the capacity of the multilateral trading system to respond to the concerns of developing and least developed countries. to this end, the agreement provides for special and differentiated treatment, allowing developing and least-developed countries to define autonomously the timetable for the phased implementation of the technical measures envisaged, and linking the application of certain provisions to the provision of technical assistance. they also contain some 40 provisions aimed at speeding up the movement of goods across borders, contributing to increased trade volumes, better fraud detection and enhanced efficiency of customs authorities, which is estimated to reduce trade costs by between 12.5% and 17.5%.
‒ in parallel with the european parliament's recommendation for the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement and similar international agreements, this own-initiative report has been drawn up, expressing parliament's opinion on the same, as it is not possible to integrate it into the formal approval procedure for the conclusion of the agreement. the eu's work in promoting free, fair, open, balanced and mutually beneficial trade for all parties is undeniable, and the wto is the natural framework for pursuing and reaffirming these principles. the agreement thus constitutes an important milestone, not only as the first multilateral agreement since the establishment of the wto in 1995, but also as a model for customs modernisation among the 161 members. its implementation will lead to the harmonisation and simplification of trade-related procedures, in particular in developing countries, through special and differentiated treatment, and will also create a more favourable environment for enterprises, especially smes, to access new markets and to strengthen their competitiveness. i voted in favour of considering the provisions for special and differential treatment granted to developing and least-developed countries with a view to facilitating their trade as generally positive.
‒ we regret that the bali ministerial conference did not address issues of solidarity and mutual respect between peoples, aiming at truly balanced and mutually beneficial trade relations, which do not exploit the resources (natural, cultural and labour) of the least developed countries in favour of the developed countries. in our view, a fair agreement should necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', should guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, should safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, as well as respect cultural diversity.
‒ the report deals with the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto), following its 9th ministerial conference in bali in december 2013, at which the 160 members concluded negotiations on the trade facilitation agreement, which is the first multilateral agreement since its creation in 1995 to establish a model for customs modernisation. it is regrettable that the bali ministerial conference did not address issues of solidarity and mutual respect between peoples, aimed at genuinely balanced and mutually beneficial trade relations, which do not plunder the least developed countries of their resources (natural, cultural and labour) in favour of the developed countries. a fair agreement must necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, and respect cultural diversity. we therefore voted against.
‒ the budapest convention contributes to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contracts and rules on inland navigation in europe. it is an agreement partially falling within the exclusive competence of the european union. however, the convention does not provide for the possibility of the union becoming a party. eleven member states are already parties to the budapest convention and fifteen member states have indicated that their inland waterways are not covered by the convention. austria and poland have expressed an interest in becoming parties to the convention and their participation will facilitate the wider application of this legal instrument for the benefit of citizens and businesses. belgium ratified the budapest convention on 5 august 2008. i agree with your accession to the budapest convention.
‒ the budapest convention was adopted by the diplomatic conference jointly organised by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the budapest convention, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, has proved to be a great success and contributes to the smooth functioning of the internal market in transport. it aims to harmonize contractual and inland navigation rules between european countries. by becoming party to this convention, acceding countries will benefit from the advantages of the convention. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways contributes to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contracts and rules on inland waterways in europe. i would stress that the eu cannot be a party to the convention and that its member states can only accede if duly authorised by the eu. i stress that the eu's external policy on judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters is in no way affected by the fact that its member states have acceded to the convention. in view of the above and the expression of interest by austria and poland to become parties to the convention and the need for retroactive authorization to correct the ratification of belgium, i have nothing against this recommendation.
‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, contributes to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contracts and rules on inland waterways in europe. partly covered by the exclusive competence of the eu, insofar as it allows the parties to choose the law applicable to the contract of carriage covered by the scope of the convention, this agreement cannot be ratified or acceded to by the member states without the union's authorisation (article 2 (1) tfeu). austria and poland have expressed an interest in becoming party to the convention. moreover, belgium ratified the budapest convention on 5 august 2008 and therefore a retroactive authorisation is necessary to correct the current irregular situation. this draft decision authorises belgium and poland to ratify and austria to accede to the budapest convention. i voted in favour of their approval.
‒ the purpose of this proposal for a recommendation is to authorise the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and the republic of austria to accede to the said convention, which is considered to be an important instrument for promoting inland navigation in europe. the budapest convention applies to any contract for the carriage of goods where the port of loading or the place of acceptance of the cargo and the port of unloading or the place of delivery of the goods are located in two different states, at least one of which is a state party to the convention. where the contract provides for a choice of several ports of landing or delivery places, the choice shall be determined by the port of landing or the delivery place to which the goods have actually been delivered. member states with inland waterways falling within the scope of the budapest convention should therefore be allowed to ratify or accede to this instrument. i agree, so i voted in favour.
‒ the proposal is to authorise the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and the republic of austria to accede to the said convention, which is considered an important instrument for the promotion of inland navigation throughout europe. the budapest convention applies to any contract for the carriage of goods where the port of loading or the place of acceptance of the cargo and the port of unloading or the place of delivery of the goods are located in two different states, at least one of which is a state party to the convention. where the contract provides for a choice of several ports of landing or delivery places, the choice shall be determined by the port of landing or the delivery place to which the goods have actually been delivered. member states with inland waterways falling within the scope of the budapest convention should therefore be authorised to ratify or accede to that instrument. we agree.
‒ this recommendation is intended to authorise the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and the republic of austria to accede to the said convention, which is considered an important instrument for the promotion of inland navigation throughout europe. the budapest convention applies to any contract for the carriage of goods where the port of loading or the place of acceptance of the cargo and the port of unloading or the place of delivery of the goods are located in two different states, at least one of which is a state party to the convention. where the contract provides for a choice of several ports of landing or delivery places, the choice shall be determined by the port of landing or the delivery place to which the goods have actually been delivered. member states with inland waterways falling within the scope of the budapest convention should therefore be authorised to ratify or accede to that instrument. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this is a proposal to respond rapidly to the humanitarian emergency that is affecting italy and greece most intensely and particularly - at the same time. it is important to stress that the commission has been courageous. the mechanism provided for in the treaties was never activated. the commission's proposal is a good basis for discussing what is really needed: a permanent mechanism and compulsory quotas. the council, as always, has failed to live up to its responsibilities. but, in the urgency of a solution, parliament decided to waive its right to comment on the council's proposal, especially since it is not a co-legislator. however, the attention paid by this parliament to the characteristics of migrants is also the most effective measure to prevent secondary movements and to stimulate integration. the attention paid to the criteria for determining quotas should be emphasized. this report will not change anything immediately, but it certainly provides the background for the development of the next instruments!
‒ on 18 april 2015, in the worst disaster in the mediterranean since the second world war, more than 800 people died on the way to europe. the deaths of so many people, 1 867 in the first six months of 2015 alone, and the scourge of many more putting their lives at risk in the mediterranean have dramatically revealed that europe must improve its common efforts to prevent further catastrophes and to respond effectively to the refugee crisis, fulfilling its duty to protect those in need. the european parliament has called on the eu to base its response to the refugee crisis on solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
‒ while i believe that this is just a drop in the bucket and will not solve the entire humanitarian crisis, it is also important to bear in mind that this is a situation that needs an urgent response that cannot wait ad eternam with the aim of achieving an eventual ideal solution. the present report significantly improves on the commission's initial proposal, in particular by ensuring that applicants have to give their consent to be relocated, and by ensuring that asylum seekers' preferences as to countries for relocation are taken into account, using criteria such as family ties, social relations, or other types of previous employment or academic relationship. we urgently need more measures to deal with this human tragedy in all its dimensions.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on provisional measures for italy and greece in the field of international protection. the relocation of 40,000 asylum seekers to other eu countries over a two-year period is at stake. the european parliament has shown solidarity and responsibility in the face of a serious humanitarian problem which should encourage a position on a permanent relocation mechanism. europe must be able to respond, it must be supportive, but it must also be clear-sighted. the debate must be held, and effective mechanisms must be set up to give effective help to those who should receive it.
‒ europe is facing new challenges, it is sought by those desperately fleeing war, violence, hunger and abuse. the flow of refugees seeking hope for themselves and their families in europe is one of the new global phenomena. and for new realities, we urgently need to have new solutions. europe must give the best possible welcome to those who have struggled to reach a safe haven. i believe it is important to provide member states, themselves 'gateways' for these refugees in the eu, with support to enable them to be welcomed in a dignified manner. a rapid and effective policy for the registration of these people is important, avoiding future situations of irregular movements within the european area. i agree that no single member state can deal effectively with this influx of refugees. the eu must base its action on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities.
in writing. the 962% increase in irregular migrants crossing the eu's borders compared to the same period last year has exacerbated the emergency situation in the countries of entry, particularly italy and greece. article 13 of regulation (eu) no 604/2013 assigns the responsibility for examining the application for protection to the first country of entry, which has consequently put a negative pressure on its migration and asylum systems. in order to alleviate the pressure on italy and greece, this legislative resolution lays down interim measures in the field of international protection for the temporary and exceptional relocation to other member states of 110 000 persons in clear need of international protection. given the shared responsibility of the member states in the reception of refugees and asylum seekers, and also taking into account the current emergency situation and the extraordinary demands it imposes - in terms of enhanced solidarity and responsibility - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
‒ this is the biggest disaster in the mediterranean since the second world war and the drama of this migration crisis. the commission's emergency solution to this terrible situation was to activate the emergency response system provided for under article 78 (3) tfeu. the proposal includes a scheme for the temporary distribution of persons in clear need of international protection and the allocation of funds for the relocation of applicants, ensuring a fair and balanced participation of all member states. i support the proposal to establish provisional measures on international protection for italy and greece so that they can deal effectively with the significant influx of migrants and refugees into their territories. i also support, as does the rapporteur, the commission's proposal for a binding relocation measure which includes an obligation to share refugees among the member states, based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility sharing, since emergency relocation is only an immediate solution to the enormous pressure these two countries have been under and which jeopardises the eu's main achievements, such as freedom of movement within the schengen area.
‒ the eu has obvious responsibilities in destabilising and warring, in the policy of economic domination and the plundering of natural resources in the countries of origin of these refugees, notably syria and libya. the report in question fully clarifies these responsibilities and continues the same security policy by promoting the work of the frontex agency. the solidarity of the various countries in welcoming refugees is certainly crucial and necessary. but we believe that a system of binding quotas will not meet either the aspirations of these countries or the possibilities of countries with different capacities. we also disagree that the 'territory of the member states' is a 'criterion for determining the distribution key for migrants'. what is essential is the creation of conditions in the countries for the integration of migrants in terms of economic and social rights. for humanitarian reasons and in compliance with the geneva convention, states must take measures to give refugees appropriate reception in an expression of solidarity with the peoples who are victims of these aggressions.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the eu has taken a number of steps to ensure that the situation in the region is not further destabilised. the report in question fully clarifies these responsibilities and continues the same security policy by promoting the work of the frontex agency. the solidarity of the various countries in welcoming refugees is certainly crucial and necessary, but we believe that a system of binding quotas will not meet either the aspirations of these countries or the possibilities of countries with different capacities. we are even less in agreement that the 'territory of the member states' is a 'criterion for determining the distribution key for migrants'. what is essential is the creation of conditions in the countries for the integration of migrants in terms of economic and social rights. for humanitarian reasons and in compliance with the geneva convention, states must take measures to give refugees appropriate welcome in an expression of solidarity with the peoples who are victims of these aggressions and the eu must abandon its policy of militarization, neo-colonialism and exploitation of the peoples of africa and the middle east. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ i support the report by my colleague kerstin westphal on the urban dimension of eu policies. cities and functional urban areas are economic pillars and engines of job creation in the eu (since innovation and new economic activities often originate in the city), thus providing added value for the eu in its relations with other regions of the world. i support the commission's initiative to work towards a european urban agenda, and i consider its creation essential with the aim of seeking a better articulation between urban solutions and eu challenges, a better link between sectoral policies and levels of governance, a better targeting of eu funding to relevant local urban challenges and a better assessment of the territorial impact of sectoral policies. the urban agenda should promote the development of governance solutions that can best meet the challenges and objectives of sustainable, economically and socially inclusive development of europe's cities and functional urban areas.
‒ in 2014, half of the world's population and 72% of the european population lived in urban areas, and by 2050, almost 80% of the world's population will live in urban areas, which are a single polycentric structure built around large, medium and small cities and surrounding areas. in addition, some 70% of european policies and legislation are implemented at local and regional level, and better policy coordination between and with stakeholders and levels of government is needed, as the sectoral approach to eu policy can lead to policies and legislation that do not favour functional urban areas. i agree with the idea of creating a european urban agenda that better articulates urban solutions and eu challenges, a better link between sectoral policies and levels of governance, a better targeting of eu funding to relevant local urban challenges and a better assessment of the territorial impact of sectoral policies.
‒ i have voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the urban dimension of european union policies. given that 70% of european policies and legislation are implemented at local and regional level, it is also worth noting that cities, or large urban areas, play an important and fundamental role as economic pillars and engines of job creation. however, they are faced with less positive factors such as population ageing and decline, pollution, traffic congestion or social exclusion. in this sense, european policies play a crucial role for sustainable economic and social development.
‒ the creation of an eu urban agenda has been advocated for many years, with the aim of ensuring better coordination of policies and the integration of urban development objectives across a wide range of policy areas. i agree that the so-called 'european urban agenda' should, in order to be effective, adopt a shared conceptual model, which is regularly updated, and a thematic centralisation on a limited number of challenges within the wider context of the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. i believe that european union policies should support cities and their metropolitan areas, also known as functional urban areas, and enable them to demonstrate their key role as catalysts for economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
‒ the present own-initiative report addresses the challenges that urban policy poses to european union policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in this context, it is important to develop an eu urban agenda that assesses policy coordination and ensures the integration of urban development objectives horizontally across the broad policy framework of the legislator. the aim is to ensure coherence in environmental, employment, transport and energy policies, which have an impact on urban areas. in view of the pace of urbanisation, which is projected to reach almost 80% of the world's population by 2050 and in view of the urgency of this coordinated action to provide eu citizens with progressively better living conditions, i voted in favour of the owninitiative report.
‒ i recognise the importance of a european urban agenda for sustainable, integrated and socially inclusive development. in 2014, the percentage of the eu population living in urban areas was 72% and could reach 78% by 2030, generating two thirds of gdp. it is therefore necessary to take account of the involvement of urban areas in the fulfilment of the eu employment targets and the 2020 cohesion policy objectives. i support the rapporteur's view that the european urban agenda should be compatible with the global urban agenda.
‒ 72% of europe's population lives in urban areas and this report draws attention to the urban dimension of european policies and the main features of a future eu urban agenda. it is proposed that cities should be more involved in the design and implementation of european policies, and that these should be adapted to urban realities, respecting the principle of subsidiarity and the limits of the european regulatory framework. the creation of an eu-wide urban agenda should help to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of development policies for cities and the regions where they are located - sometimes rural areas with problems of desertification and depopulation, and is also a vehicle for promoting overall sustainability and development aid policies. it should also be ambitious and integrate european societal challenges of co2 reduction, adaptation to climate change and inclusion or demographic change. the role of local, regional, national and european authorities in defining, developing and implementing the agenda is of paramount importance, with a focus on strengthening coordination between the various sectoral policies. only through active participation and coordinated policy action can cities provide their inhabitants with sound living conditions.
‒ it is well known that the vast majority of europe's population lives in cities and that this trend will deepen in the medium to long term (80% of the population by 2050). the report takes a positive approach to the 'urban issue' as a driver of economic development and a space for socioeconomic inclusion. it therefore advocates the application of the principles of subsidiarity, better coordination between cities and urban management as a factor of participation and citizenship. we share the importance of the urban dimension of policies and are accompanied by the idea that many of today's social and political challenges can only be solved at the territorial level with policies directed at the city where the population is concentrated and an increasing share of economic activity. what we do not agree with is the attempt to tie the urban agenda to the objectives of strategy 2020, which we do not agree with and which is in conflict with the need to give social responses close to the populations.
‒ the report focuses on the development of the european urban context, emphasising that the vast majority of europe's population lives in cities and that this is a trend that will deepen in the medium/long term (80% of the population by 2050). the report takes a positive approach to the 'urban issue', ranking cities as engines of economic development and as spaces for socioeconomic inclusion. it therefore advocates the application of the principles of subsidiarity, better coordination between cities and urban management as a factor of participation and citizenship. it does, however, set out that the implementation of the european urban agenda should 'take the form of a shared and regularly updated conceptual framework, with a thematic concentration on a limited number of challenges in the broader context of the europe 2020 objectives', challenges that must meet certain criteria such as: being in line with the shared conceptual framework and not being able to be solved unilaterally by member states. we abstained because we were not in line with this strategy, which is dominated by market values and liberalization.
mr president, madam high representative, this is in fact the longest conflict in the middle east and it has had irreversible consequences and so i would like to speak about a report that came out a week ago, a united nations report, so that we do not have another irreversible consequence. the united nations study released in early september warned that the gaza strip could become uninhabitable in less than five years as a result of the three wars that have followed. water, agriculture, homes, hospitals, schools, everything was destroyed. the same study revealed that socioeconomic conditions in the territory are at their lowest level since 1967. the same study shows that the situation is unsustainable after 8 years of economic blockade. the same study reports that in the first four months of 2015, israel again withheld customs revenues, which would represent 75% of the cash inflows into the gaza strip. in no conflict is history made in black and white. but it is true that this is not just any conflict and that there is an oppressive state and that it has been given preferential treatment. there was another report this week too, which shows that arms sales from european countries to the state of israel continue to increase. in one of the countries, this increase represented one third of turnover, one third of profit and, moreover, expenditure of eur 660 million. madam high representative, will we ever be able to talk in this parliament about peace processes without putting an end to the arms trade? i confess i support, and i support your effort. but we have to end the arms trade process because there is no peace process that rhymes with arms trade.
it is imperative that the peace process between israel and palestine be restored. this requires the european union to make a serious effort, overcoming the resistance of some member states, to achieve the goal of two states for peaceful coexistence between the two peoples. as long as israel blocks the return to negotiations, the illegal occupation, humiliation and violence will continue, and could lead to new war. if israel continues to prevent a viable palestinian state, it is condemning itself to self-destruction. the alternative to two states is one state, an idea that seduces more and more young palestinians and israeli arabs every day, and then, one of the two, we will either have an undemocratic state of israel or a state in which jews will be in the minority. if it wants democracy and peace, israel has to behave as a responsible actor and build trust with the palestinian leadership by reopening negotiations. europe cannot afford to remain aloof. we're counting on you, mrs. mogherini. you can count on us.
mr president, high representative mogherini, my thanks to you and your team, because the nuclear agreement with iran is a major step forward for regional and global security and non-proliferation. but it is also essential to encourage the iranian authorities to adopt a new attitude in the region, in the world and towards their own people, in particular in respect for human rights. we may have many differences, we do, with iran, but we are facing a functioning state which at this moment in the history of the region and of humanity must be encouraged to play a priority role in resolving conflicts and, in particular, to end the war in neighbouring syria and not to allow lebanon to explode. to do this, the european union must work to end the sectarian confrontation between shiites and sunnis, which is reflected in the rivalry between iran and saudi arabia, and is now also fuelled by the devious extremism of daesh, which threatens to spread the armed conflict throughout the middle east and north africa and beyond. it is europe itself that is exposed to the murderous barbarity of daesh if it does not know how to coordinate itself in the fight and to hold regional powers such as iran, saudi arabia and turkey to account, integrating them into a solution that gives peace and a future to the syrians and to all the peoples of the region.
mr president, commissioner, as i said, there is no clear definition of precarious work. the commonly accepted definition relates to the worker's perception of safety at work, which is wrong. if, on the one hand, undeclared, informal or irregular forms of work or even false green receipts are undoubtedly forms of precarious work and are, above all, illegal, the commission has a duty to distinguish between other forms of work defined by contract and which are of the free choice and interest of the worker. for example, parttime work may be considered to correspond to a parental right to accompany a child or even to a form of employment of a student worker. this confusion of criteria leads to the european union's difficulty in combating precariousness at work, which is consequently exploited by various employers who abuse the most vulnerable for their own benefit. i would therefore like to know whether the commission has taken account of this diversity and whether it intends to create some mechanism so that we can be objective, which is a necessary condition for us to be effective in this fight. the commission must also be aware of the effects of its policies on the labour market in other sectors, such as the abolition of the quota system. in this context, we are witnessing the deterioration of employment, the result of the continuing and sharp fall in the price of milk, with a particular impact on the most vulnerable regions, such as the outermost regions, which include the azores, which is my region. the commissioner, my question is very simple in this case: does the commission intend to compensate agricultural workers who are thrown into a precarious employment situation and if so, by what mechanisms?
mr president, in many countries, behind the many figures on the fall in unemployment rates, there is another reality: precarious employment, insecurity and the misery of many workers. in my country, portugal, it has been pointed out that those who are so called employed are not part of the unemployment rate, they are not unemployed. the so-called employed are workers who, instead of having a contract of employment corresponding to the permanent post they often occupy - often even in public institutions - are workers who have a so-called employment and integration contract, attend a training course or a vocational training course and are not unemployed. last june, in portugal, there were already more than 150 000 workers in this type of precarious relationship, about 50 000 of them under the so-called employment and integration contract, in which workers work like any other worker but earn less than the minimum wage. how can the european union combat precariousness if it is the european union itself that is financing this kind of labour exploitation? in the previous financial framework, more than €95 million from the european social fund was earmarked for this type of contract. it is certainly not the increase in the flexibility of industrial relations, which you so often repeat, that will build the competitive labour market, that will improve the lives of workers. flexibility is precisely the precariousness that disregards the rights of workers. on the contrary, it is respect for these rights that will lead to increased employment.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr minister, the figures for unemployment in the european union are overwhelming, especially for the most vulnerable social groups: 24 million unemployed, or about one tenth of the working population, 6 million unemployed for more than two years, unemployment among young people aged 16 to 25 is twice, in some cases three times, that of unemployed adults, the employment rate for women is 10% lower than for men. on the other hand, 123 million europeans, a quarter of the working population, are at risk of poverty. mr president, unemployment and poverty are not a curse or a fatality. they are the result of policies which can be corrected, and if they can be corrected, it is mandatory to do so, do so!
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i was the shadow rapporteur on this dossier and i was able to follow the work carried out by your rapporteur. i would therefore like to congratulate mr kostas chrysogonos on the quality and thoroughness of the work he has done. in october 2014, the european commission published the annual report on monitoring the application of european law in the member states for the year 2013. there is still much to be done in each member state to ensure that the european directives are effectively transposed into national law and that citizens are made aware of the benefits of the correct application of european law and can fully exercise european citizenship, with full knowledge of their rights and obligations. the conclusions of this report highlight the shortening of the time taken to transpose directives, the reduction of infringement procedures, and an increase in complaints from citizens, which also reflects an increase in their civic awareness. the report is balanced and i reaffirm that european citizens have the right to be informed in a transparent and timely manner about which national laws have been adopted as a result of the transposition of european law. europe cannot impose too stringent austerity measures on some member states and at the same time require that the internal institutions be exemplary in the effective transposition... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. it is urgent and necessary, first of all, to update the existing data on trafficking in human beings. the latest available data from eurostat is for the year 2012. however, the developments resulting from the worsening economic situation in several countries, particularly in the european union, but also from the worsening destabilisation in several african and middle eastern countries, lead us to believe that this is the cruelest and harshest reality today. a reality that is cruel to women. in 2012, 74% of human trafficking victims were women and 13% of the total were girls and the figures are unequivocal, 66% of trafficked human beings are victims of sexual exploitation and of these, 96% are women. as recognised by the united nations convention for the suppression of the traffic in persons and of the exploitation of the prostitution of others, there is a direct link between prostitution and trafficking in women. without the business of prostitution, much of the trafficking ceases to exist. it is therefore necessary to criminalise those who live off the sexual exploitation of women.
author. mr president, the repression, the arbitrary detentions, the attacks on freedom of expression, the violation of freedom of association - in a country whose constitution enshrines the right to peaceful demonstration, the right to association and freedom of expression - the corruption, the unclear business, the depletion and misappropriation of natural resources by the ruling elite - in a country which has undertaken to fight against the system of money laundering and corruption - the way in which it has treated activists and, in particular, rafael marques, the blood diamond, who only yesterday saw an international arrest warrant issued for him, well, all this makes the angolan regime an authoritarian regime. but it's more than that! the moment there are deaths and there is a record of these deaths we already speak of a totalitarian regime. in this respect, the agreements between the european union and angola must be respected. the angolan government's commitment under the cotonou agreement must be respected. democracy and human rights are to be respected and taken seriously, here and everywhere in the world, and we cannot accept their accomplices either.
the european parliament has not spoken on human rights in angola since 2002. this resolution acknowledges the growing deterioration of human rights and democracy in the country, with emphasis on four worrying developments in the past year: the prosecution of journalist rafael marques, the arrest and imminent conviction of activist marques mavungo in cabinda, the massacre of an unknown number of people in huambo in april, and the detention of 15+1 young activists in june, which continues with a brutal crackdown on their families preventing them from even protesting. we call for the immediate and unconditional release of all human rights defenders, including marques mavungo and the 15+1 activists, and for all charges against them to be dropped. we support the un high commissioner for human rights in calling for an independent international investigation into the mount sumi massacre. we call for respect for freedom of expression, assembly and press, which has been grossly and systematically violated in angola. i was in angola last july and i could see how the economic crisis, because of the fall in the price of oil and rampant corruption, increases social tensions, protests and how the angolan people are increasingly outraged at the plundering of state resources by the elite around the president, which continues unstoppable. it is therefore necessary that the european union should not continue to turn a blind eye to the blatant corruption in angola. the european regulators need to monitor compliance with due diligence and risk analysis on large-scale investments by the angolan kleptocracy in european countries, including my own, portugal.
‒ cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, fostering their competitiveness, responding to climate change and energy dependence, and at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the principles of competitiveness, sustainability and regulatory reliability should therefore be strengthened and proactively supported in order to promote jobs and growth in europe. i welcome the fact that the council, the commission and parliament have agreed to reduce the level of outstanding invoices at the end of the year, particularly in cohesion policy, i.e. to pay expenditure that was authorised but has not yet been paid. i support the need for member states and the commission to continue to improve and extend the eures platform as an effective tool to promote the mobility of europe's workers. i welcome the creation of the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and its potential leverage effect. it is imperative to start implementing operational programmes as soon as they are approved. only then will we stimulate job creation, increase productivity and contribute to the union's climate and energy objectives.
‒ the decisive role of eu cohesion policy in reducing regional disparities, promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states and supporting job creation is undeniable. the latest data for 2013 show that long-term unemployment in the union has reached a historically high level of 5,1% of the working population. i agree that cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, promoting their competitiveness, responding to climate change and energy dependence, and at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
‒ the decisive role of eu cohesion policy in reducing regional disparities, promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states and supporting job creation is undeniable. cohesion policy is the main eu-wide investment policy in the real economy and a recognised instrument for growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over eur 350 billion by 2020. during the economic crisis, cohesion policy is proving to be a key instrument for maintaining investment levels in several member states. in some member states, this policy is the main source of public investment. such incentives are already being felt in certain member states, and we must continue to use these mechanisms to grow the economy. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i support the relevant role of the european union's cohesion policy in reducing regional disparities, promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states and fostering job creation. i would stress that cohesion policy is the main investment policy at eu level and in the real economy and a recognised instrument for growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over eur 350 billion by 2020. i would stress that it has been cohesion policy in recent years that has mitigated the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis by maintaining public investment levels in the member states. i cannot fail to point out the significant structural delays at the beginning of the cohesion policy programming periods resulting from the delay in the adoption of the operational programmes. i reiterate the original function of cohesion policy to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion and to reduce regional disparities, in particular by supporting the less developed regions.
‒ the european union's cohesion policy, with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020, plays a key role in reducing the disparity between the levels of development of the most and least developed regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions. the report on investment, growth and employment, for promoting social cohesion, the rapporteur believes that cohesion policy has proved effective in responding to the economic and financial crisis and in addressing the shortfall in public investment in the union. the flexible measures of cohesion policy have enabled direct support for economic activity and employment and have also promoted regional stability by ensuring the flow of financing for national public and private investments, either by reducing national co-financing or by means of additional payment advances. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i understand that the best way to integrate is to create jobs. the data are clear: unemployment in the european union has been rising, with long-term unemployment at its highest level ever, reaching 5.1% (2013 data). with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020, cohesion policy is set to be the main instrument for job growth in the eu. but we still need more. i believe that the original function of cohesion policy - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the less developed regions - should be consolidated. in any event, and taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the various committees, in particular the regi, cult and femm committees, i shall vote in favour of this report.
‒ every three years, the european commission should present a report on progress made in economic, social and territorial cohesion. the sixth report highlights the success of cohesion policy, particularly in terms of investment and job creation under the european regional development fund (600 000 jobs created and investment in 200 000 sme projects and 80 000 'start-ups') and the european social fund (68 million euro to support individual projects and over 400 000 cases of creation of 'start-ups' and self-employed). the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the key objectives of cohesion investment for the period 2014-2020 - energy efficiency, employment and smes - are also highlighted in the report and, when complemented by the investment plan for europe, will contribute positively to achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the eu.
‒ cohesion policy is one of the pillars on which the european construction rests. solidarity is one of its underlying principles, and it is being put to the test in the context of the financial and economic contraction we are experiencing. we must make every effort to ensure that this principle of solidarity is not neglected and that it is translated into policy options which reflect this principle through the redistribution of resources and opportunities. more cohesion means giving people and regions with geographical, social and economic constraints more access to better living conditions. this concern must be reflected in all the sectoral policies of the european union, especially in times of crisis such as the present one. otherwise we risk quickly undoing the long-standing efforts to achieve territorial balance, with social and economic consequences that are difficult to reverse without generational costs.
in the context of a decline in investment as a consequence of the crisis, it is very appropriate to raise the question of cohesion, which is an eloquent response to all those who continue to believe, naively believe, that this european union still has in its programmatic matrix values such as solidarity, cohesion or human rights. in this respect, the report's calls for ensuring the continuation of investment in cohesion in the 2014-2020 framework, emphasising, in the face of delays in the establishment of member states' operational programmes, that there should be compensation for these delays and that these funding should not be lost, are relevant, although they do not leave much room for optimism. another relevant aspect of the report is the need to simplify administrative procedures for accessing funding; the promotion of social inclusion, gender equality and the development of education and training; the reduction of unemployment and support for smes, as well as the establishment of partnerships and the development of public services.
‒ the report assesses the implementation of the eu's 6th cohesion report, framing programming for the period 2007-2013 and the start of the 2014-2020 period. the question of the union's cohesion has always been a subject of debate, as an objective which the eu has always expressed but which has been constantly subordinated. stresses the importance of the 2014-2020 framework as a way to ensure the continuation of investment in cohesion and stresses, in the face of delays in the establishment of the member states' operational programmes, that compensation for these delays should be provided and that these funding should not be lost. among other positive factors, the report highlights the need to reduce regional disparities; the need to simplify administrative procedures for accessing funding; the promotion of social inclusion, gender equality and the development of education and training; the reduction of unemployment and support for smes; the establishment of partnerships and the development of public services. however, the report maintains that cohesion policies should be framed within the europe 2020 strategy, the specific recommendations, the macroeconomic conditionalities and the european semester. these policies are totally contrary to the objective of cohesion. we voted against it.
‒ the initiatives launched in the framework of the european year 2012 will be monitored and followed up, as the sustainability of the results is of the utmost importance. one of the main outcomes for which it is important for the european commission to provide investment is the forthcoming eu pact, a large and open network, which already brings together more than 270 local and regional authorities, researchers and civil society organisations committed to responding to demographic change in europe by promoting age-friendly environments, in close cooperation with the world health organisation. another key aspect to consider would be to recognise the contribution of older citizens and to reinforce the positive role they play in society and to work towards improving dialogue between generations. i therefore agree that it is essential to promote age-friendly environments, taking into account the impending demographic change and the development of the 'senior economy' based on the economic opportunities arising from public and consumer spending related to the ageing of the population and to certain innovative products, services and solutions and needs of the population over 50 years of age, which generates new jobs and growth.
‒ the year 2012 has been designated as the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the overall objective was to facilitate the creation of an active ageing culture in europe, based on a society for all ages. a number of initiatives have been maintained which have brought good solutions to active ageing, which will be important in the future.
in writing. ‒ 2012 was the year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, with the aim of raising awareness of the value of active ageing, stimulating the exchange of information, promoting active ageing policies and creating a framework for concrete action by the union and its member states. i would stress that the eu is facing unparalleled demographic, social and structural changes which should be studied. projections suggest that the average age of the eu population will be over 50 by 2050. i agree that the european year 2012 has given a boost to the debate on the challenges of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity and has made it possible to demonstrate fully that older people are not, and cannot be, a burden on the economy and society, but on the contrary, they must be seen as an added value, thanks to their experience, their achievements and their knowledge. i am in favour of the initiatives launched in the context of the european year 2012 being followed up and transformed into political commitment, accompanied by concrete measures to ensure social inclusion, active participation and the well-being of all generations.
‒ the aim of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations (european year 2012) was to raise awareness among citizens of the european union of the challenges of ageing in a context of population decline on the one hand and increasing average life expectancy on the other. the average age of the eu population is estimated to be over 50 years by 2050. in this context, the commission invited parliament to adopt the european year 2012 in order to raise public awareness of the value of active ageing, promote information exchange, combat age discrimination and stereotypes and propose a framework for commitment and concrete action to be taken into account in the development of new legislation on the subject. the report analyses the success of the initiatives launched and commends the main results of the european year 2012. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. i voted in favour of the report.
‒ civilization in europe is making it possible for people to live longer. at a time when most eu countries are experiencing a birth crisis, we must unlock the potential of this population for society. active ageing is therefore a challenge for the union and requires a multidimensional approach and responsibility towards the generations. a society that wants to solve this problem is a society that is willing to find solutions. austria, estonia, slovenia and the czech republic are good examples. i'm counting on others to follow. i hope portugal does not forget its elders. i hope that my vote in favour will strengthen the common objective of creating a culture of active ageing in europe.
‒ the 'european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations' took place in 2012 and its main objectives were to raise public awareness of the value of active ageing, to debate and exchange information for the sharing of experiences and mutual learning, to combat age discrimination and to commit to concrete action in this field. the report states that the objectives of the european year 2012 have been achieved overall, despite the small budget that has been made available, highlighting the results achieved with regard to the principles of active ageing and solidarity between generations, as well as the active ageing index. i agree with the rapporteur's analysis, in particular on raising the retirement age and the need to reduce discrimination in access to the labour market and to better integrate lifelong learning policies for all, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the term 'active ageing' should not mean that people have to work later. it should rather indicate that the elderly should not be abandoned, as is the case in so many countries today. they must be able to participate actively in social life, they must be able to exercise their citizenship and, in order for this to happen, they must necessarily have access to decent retirement pensions, which guarantee their independence, and public services, in particular public health services. this issue should not be used as a pretext for a legitimate concern - to keep older people active - to try to impose the idea that the increase in the retirement age is inevitable or to privatize social security systems.
‒ we believe that the increase in average life expectancy is an achievement of civilization and a factor of social progress and should not be seen as a burden on society, as the report advocates. now what the expression 'active ageing' should mean is not that people have to work until later, but that older people should not be abandoned, as is currently the case in so many countries, but rather that they should be able to participate actively in social life, they should be able to exercise their citizenship and that, for this to happen, they must necessarily have access to decent retirement pensions that guarantee their independence and to public services, in particular public health services, that guarantee them the quality of life, which is an indispensable condition for them to participate actively in their communities. we reject the idea that this issue should be used to impose the idea that the age of retirement is inevitable or that social security systems should be privatised, under the pretext of a legitimate concern to keep older people active. we voted against it.
‒ following the white paper on transport, the commission presented an ambitious strategy for a competitive transport system that increases mobility, promotes growth and jobs, while removing the main barriers in key areas. i support and agree with the own-initiative report by mr van de camp, which reiterates the european parliament's support for the effective implementation of the objectives set out in the white paper, despite doubts as to the feasibility of their implementation and feasibility within the proposed deadlines. i agree with the rapporteur that a transport policy for the 21st century must be based on sustainable mobility supported by policy instruments which enable it to make the transition to less polluting and more energy-efficient means of transport effectively, which today does not result in a set of isolated and selected acts but in an approach of interaction of infrastructure, vehicles, information technologies, rules and behaviour. this is required by the complex and multi-modal nature of the transport system. special attention should be paid to unfair external competition which does not respect european social, labour and environmental standards and which causes, to a certain extent, disruption in the internal market.
‒ a simple reading of the ten targets set out in the white paper, which support the overall vision of achieving a competitive and resource-efficient transport system (reference frameworks for achieving the 60% ghg emissions reduction target), shows that while work has already started, the main efforts needed to transform the eu's transport system still need to be made. solving the major problems identified in the white paper means meeting very difficult targets by 2050 and demanding challenges by 2020/2030. transforming transport to make it more efficient, less polluting and more reliable will not be possible through a small number of selected interventions alone. i agree with the need to take stock in order to get an overall picture of the situation with regard to the implementation of the 40 initiatives and 131 actions. on the other hand, extremely ambitious targets seem very difficult to achieve if they are not supported by a detailed and solid project plan, linked to realistic and achievable short- and medium-term targets towards long-term objectives.
‒ the 2011 white paper on transport clearly states that transport should be liberalised. i cannot in any way agree with such objectives and therefore cannot but vote against them.
‒ in its 2011 white paper on transport, the european commission presented an ambitious future strategy for a competitive transport system, with a view to increasing mobility, removing the main barriers in key areas and promoting growth and jobs. at the same time, the proposals aim to dramatically reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. many of these tasks are still to be achieved. we must work harder to achieve them. only then will we have sustainable and healthy growth in economies.
‒ this european parliament resolution takes stock of the incipient implementation of the 2011 white paper in order to obtain an overall picture of the situation with regard to the implementation of the policies adopted since its adoption. the rapporteur, mr glinne, has already made a number of suggestions for improving the quality of transport services. the report lists the challenges, organising them around the following themes: competition in international aviation, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, balancing modes of transport and the single european transport area. once identified, the challenges will be taken into account in the development of a plan for a transport system that is more efficient, sustainable, competitive, accessible, user-friendly and beneficial to european citizens. in order to support the advance planning which the complexity of the transport system and the multiplicity of factors require, i voted in favour of the report under consideration.
‒ i agree with the review of the objectives set out in the white paper on transport. it is important that we continue to develop in particular in an area which is one of the main engines of the eu economy, employing some 10 million people. but i also do not forget how important it is that we overcome the barriers that persist in relation to dependence on oil and other energy resources derived from fossil fuels. i hope that the objectives set out in the white paper can be achieved.
‒ in the 2011 white paper on transport, the commission presented an ambitious future strategy for a competitive transport system, with the aim of increasing mobility, removing the main barriers in key sectors, and promoting growth and jobs. the proposals set challenging targets to dramatically reduce europe's dependence on fossil fuels and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. making the complex transport sector more efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable will not be possible with only a small number of specific interventions at european level, and will therefore need to be combined with actions at national, regional and local level. as such, the mid-term review of the transport white paper should maintain this long-term (2050) vision, complementing it with intermediate targets and objectives for the coming years, which can be duly assessed in terms of their efficiency, soundness and effectiveness. i support the rapporteur's position on the priority to be given to energy-efficient sustainable modes of transport and the creation of a single european transport area capable of being strong and competitive on the world stage, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ following up on the 2011 white paper on transport, the report proposes a set of measures that can boost the transport sector by promoting better multimodal connectivity, better infrastructure, technological development, digitisation and seamless communications, environmental sustainability of the sector, including co2eq emissions levels, etc. at the same time, it presupposes and affirms the primacy of liberalisation of the sector and greater openness to markets as a touchstone for transport policy. we're not going that way.
‒ the report provides an interim assessment of the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport and contains a number of measures to achieve the objectives of the white paper. the report, following up on the white paper, advocates a set of measures that can boost the transport sector, expressing the intention to promote: better multimodal links; better infrastructures; technological development, digitisation and communications without interference; environmental sustainability of the sector, in particular co2eq emissions levels; support for the development of 'light' and impact-free mobility; greater relationship with passengers and defence of their rights, etc. however, the report goes along with the white paper in that it assumes and reaffirms the intention to liberalise the sector and to 'open up markets' more. on the other hand, it refers to the single european space (and the single european sky), which we have always opposed. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ if there were no studies on the subject, it would be empirically possible to perceive the obstacles that many women across europe still encounter in the workplace. many are still forced to choose between family life and professional life, too many are still not respected in their legal rights, and others are still facing new challenges in their workplaces. the academic world and scientific production are a reality that presents specific challenges. despite the campaigns already carried out, the report rightly complains that the results are far from satisfactory. this report not only makes a good diagnosis, but also presents solutions that can be implemented by the commission and the member states in the framework of the european research area and horizon 2020. i therefore support this report.
‒ in statistics and surveys, women are underrepresented in most research, engineering and management positions and at the highest levels of hierarchy, even in sectors where they are in the majority, such as education, for example, only constituting 24% of the science and engineering workforce. the commission has already committed to ensuring a 40% representation of the under-represented sex in the composition of all its expert groups, panels and committees and although the percentage of female researchers is growing faster than that of male researchers, in 2009 only 33% of all researchers in the eu-27 were women. the percentage of women in the business organization sector is the lowest, where only 19% of all researchers are women, compared to 40% in the higher education sector and 40% in the government sector. i agree that member states should promote policies aimed at improving good practices in the recruitment and employment of scientists. the notion of equality must begin in school where children learn that they are equal in all aspects of their lives. schools should implement diversity training to support women in careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics).
‒ this report calls on the commission and the member states to implement positive measures to ensure an increase in the presence and participation of women in science and the university, even calling on the member states to review their legislation in order to strengthen and promote non-discrimination between men and women. the report also calls for the principle of non-discrimination to be applied to all types of contracts, whether for employment or financing, and calls for respect for the right to equal pay for equal work. however, while it calls for legislation to achieve a better balance between work and private life, particularly with regard to childcare and childcare services, it does not include the issue of the maternity leave directive. however, it is a very positive report from the point of view of promoting gender equality, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the fundamental principle that gender equality is enshrined in the eu treaties and is one of the objectives for which the union is striving. it is therefore important that there is a continuous review of the existing legal provisions. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ the draft resolution in question is based on the letter of the treaty on european union, in particular articles 2 and 3, which take account of the considerations of equality between men and women as a fundamental value which should be taken into account in the application of the rules of the treaties. the rapporteur notes that, despite the positive developments in recent years, equality between men and women, as enshrined in the treaties, has not been achieved. as is the case here, the role played by gender bias is to push women away from the fields of academic research and scientific institutions. this is a result of a deep-rooted and widespread body of beliefs, based on stereotypes, which often determine not only women's career prospects but also their expectations, which are frustrated by social pressure and the limitations of motherhood. considering that women are fundamentally equal to men in all aspects of their lives and considering further that positive action is essential to promote good practices in the recruitment and employment of scientists, i voted in favour of the report.
‒ the existing legal provisions do not yet guarantee gender equality. although 59% of graduates in the eu-28 are women, they represent only 18% of professors and only 10% of rectors of universities. according to statistics and surveys, women are still underrepresented in stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) related education fields and careers, constituting only 24% of science and engineering professionals. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which supports measures to promote the presence of women in management positions, in scientific and academic careers and to combat gender segregation.
‒ women still face multiple barriers to reconciling their family lives with their professional careers, including academic and scientific careers, which are linked, directly or indirectly, to stereotypes, motherhood, family obligations, among others. we are therefore still far from achieving the desired gender equality in this field. that is why this report is a good one, not only to make a good diagnosis of the current situation, but also to present concrete solutions that can be implemented by the commission and the member states within the framework of the european research area and the specific programme horizon 2020, with the aim of increasing equality between men and women in universities and in the fields of scientific research. consensus was reached on this report, and i too contributed my vote to its final adoption.
in writing. ‒ as a scientist in portugal, i have seen a progressive increase in the number of women in science. and i see this number going up, accompanied by a marked increase in the quality of teaching and scientific research. in portugal, gender balance has been a long-awaited but coming achievement with unquestionable benefits. however, i recognize that this balance is not yet general in the various institutions and that there are specific difficulties of women, particularly those related to motherhood, which are not yet properly framed. it is difficult, and often seemingly impossible, to combine a system based on scholarships or other highly unstable work regimes with pregnancy. we must create the tools to better protect women, allowing access and especially success in scientific careers at all stages of their lives. there's still work to be done. i therefore welcome and support this own-initiative report.
‒ we consider it important to know the outcome of equality policies in research and universities in the different eu countries. we believe that it may be worthwhile to draw up proposals which each member state may or may not adopt in order to achieve gender equality and pay equality in science, research, the technological sectors and universities. this report concludes that gender equality in science and universities has not yet been achieved as women have an extremely low presence in top academic positions and decision-making in scientific institutions and universities. we agree that the principle of non-discrimination must be observed in all types of employment or financing contracts, as well as the legal right to equal pay for equal work. we also support the need to recognise adequate paternity leave and allowance so that it is economically viable for men to take on the care of a child. we have reservations about the possibility of sanctioning institutions which do not meet the so-called equality 'targets', but we agree with the general content of the report and therefore voted in favour.
‒ as the report suggests, we believe it is important to know the outcome of equality policies in research and universities in the different eu countries, and we believe that it may be worthwhile to draw up proposals that each member state may or may not adopt in order to achieve gender equality and pay equality in science, research, the technology sectors and universities. this report concludes that despite positive changes in recent years, gender equality in science and universities has not yet been achieved as women have a very low presence in top academic positions and decision-making in scientific institutions and universities. we agree that the principle of non-discrimination must be observed in all types of employment or financing contracts, as well as the legal right to equal pay for equal work. we agree that there is a need to recognise adequate paternity leave and allowance so that it is economically viable for men to take on the care of a child. although we do not agree with the possibility of sanctioning institutions which do not meet the so-called equality 'targets', we do agree with the general content of the report and therefore voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour because this report underlines the importance of education as a means of achieving gender equality, not only through access to education itself but also through culture and curriculum and school materials themselves. despite all the progress that has been made in recent years, the differences between boys and girls are still very much present, and it is undeniable that education should be a key tool to question and change these stereotypes with all the future benefits of this change. the report also calls for gender equality measures to be implemented at all levels of the education system, as well as in teacher training, and for gender equality monitoring and evaluation in educational institutions. the report also recommends that member states make sex education compulsory in their curricula. it stresses that programmes, both formal and informal, must address and combat gender-based violence and discrimination, coercion, harassment, homophobia and transphobia in all their forms, including cyberbullying or online harassment.
‒ i voted against the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the empowerment of young people through education in the european union. indeed, the education of young people is one of the most important factors for the prosperity and growth of a country. however, i do not think that this motion for a resolution does anything to clarify the importance and role of youth education in building an active citizenry and having a major impact on the economic, cultural and social development of a country. the proposal put forward by the rapporteur reflects a confusion of subjects, models and data which does not meet the design of a european parliament motion for a resolution.
‒ i believe in the importance of gender equality and the importance of promoting citizenship based on the principle of equality between men and women, boys and girls. however, i believe that this report presents an ideological and fiscal programme which goes far beyond the competence of the union, intervening in national matters of each member state. for the reasons set out above, i abstained from the final vote.
‒ this european parliament resolution focuses on the decision-making role of education and its enabling dimension, which provides de facto equal conditions for young women. education has a key role to play in the future course of professional careers and in the success of socioeconomic integration on parity with men. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendations.
‒ one of the objectives of my report is to ensure that the education systems of the member states bear in mind the need to teach children from an early age to live together and to respect differences. it is about combating the stereotypes and prejudices that prevent real gender equality. it is a matter of combating misunderstanding and, in many cases, hatred and violence against those who are different. i sincerely believe that education is the best way to ensure that in the future everyone has equal rights in all areas of society and life.
‒ this report warns of the still evident inequalities between boys and girls in access to education, and that there is still a long way to go in achieving gender equality at all levels of the education system, including on issues such as combating violence against girls, ratifying the istanbul convention, the principle of subsidiarity in school curricula, the need to challenge gender stereotypes, education as a tool in the fight against poverty and equal access to science and technology. although i largely agree with the proposals in the report, i decided to abstain not only because some of the group's suggestions, which i agreed with, were not accepted, but also because i have reservations about the principle of subsidiarity in some of the proposals, of which the content of school curricula is a good example.
‒ the european union has a mission to promote equal opportunities. all children should have access to free, quality public education without discrimination and regardless of their residence status. in this context, advancing measures to promote gender equality is of particular importance. the holistic approach advocated by this report is a path that will bring results. it starts from an assertive diagnosis, which recognises that the promotion of the democratisation of education has contributed to equal opportunities, to gender equality and to overcoming economic, social and cultural inequalities. it also lists measures which could be taken as firm steps towards equipping the union with the appropriate instruments and means for a consistent and integrated response. i am convinced that the development of personality and the spirit of tolerance, solidarity and responsibility will facilitate social progress and democratic participation in society. all these are reasons which contributed to my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ we know the importance of education in ensuring gender equality. we understand the need for a school culture of gender equality at all levels of the education system, for raising awareness of gender issues in teacher training, as well as for all categories of professionals working in schools, and for mechanisms to be created to facilitate the promotion, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of gender equality in educational establishments. we agree that only states have the capacity to provide free and compulsory universal education and that budget cuts in education, many of which are the result of eu austerity policies, are putting in jeopardy quality and free public education, thus contributing to the increase in inequalities. we are therefore in full agreement with the idea that all children should have access to a free, quality public education, without discrimination and regardless of their residence status. in other words, we generally agree with the text of the report, although we do not agree with the idea that access to education should be provided through affordable childcare facilities, which is contrary to what has been said above.
‒ the report underlines the importance of education in ensuring gender equality. it recommends a school culture of gender equality at all levels of the education system, awareness of gender issues in teacher training, as well as of all categories of professionals working in schools, and the creation of mechanisms to facilitate the promotion, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of gender equality in educational establishments. we agree that only the states have the capacity to provide free and compulsory universal education and that budget cuts in education, many of them resulting from the austerity policies advocated by the eu, endanger free and quality public education, thus contributing to the increase in inequalities. we are fully in line with the idea that all children should have access to a free, quality public education, without discrimination and regardless of their residence status. in other words, we generally agree with the text of the report, although we do not agree with the idea that access to education should be provided through affordable childcare facilities, which is contrary to what has been said above. we voted yes.
in writing. the member states of the european free trade association (efta) are major trading partners of the european union, with relations with three of these member states being based in the european economic area - eea (iceland, liechtenstein and norway). in order to achieve full internal market integration with these countries through the various agreements, it is necessary to close the remaining gaps and obstacles and to combat the threats to the achievement of this objective, so that the single market can function effectively, boost growth and competitiveness, create jobs and revitalize the european economy. as regards the eea states, it should be noted that the number of legal acts pending incorporation remains a concern and that they need to redouble their efforts in order to preserve the integrity of the single market and to combat the increase in the average transposition deficit. as regards the swiss confederation, i regret the outcome of the popular initiative of 9 february 2014 'against mass immigration' and criticise the subsequent request for renegotiation of the agreement on the free movement of persons. free movement is a fundamental freedom and a pillar of the single market! the balance in relations with the eu is at stake, which has been manifested in unilateral acts contrary to established agreements.
‒ switzerland's participation in the eea agreement was rejected in a referendum in 1992 and that therefore relations between switzerland and the eu are currently based on more than 100 sectoral agreements, which provide for a high degree of integration. the eea agreement is an essential factor for economic growth and the most ambitious and comprehensive instrument for extending the single market to third countries. the opening of negotiations in may 2014 for an institutional framework as a precondition for the future development of a bilateral approach was important in encouraging the swiss government to step up its efforts to move forward negotiations on outstanding issues, regretting, however, that the restrictions on the free movement of persons imposed by the swiss referendum risk creating an imbalance and undermining the benefits of the agreements for eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the european economic state and the obstacles to the full completion of the internal market. the eea agreement is fundamental to the creation of a competitive, growth-enhancing single market with the capacity to create jobs and to revitalise the european economy. i therefore welcome the opening of negotiations with the swiss confederation to develop a future framework for in-depth cooperation. i share the conviction that these relations can be deepened to the benefit of both sides, through a review of existing sectoral agreements and in full compliance with the eu's fundamental principles, always to the benefit of both sides. however, i am disappointed that the negotiations on switzerland's participation in the erasmus+ programme have been interrupted and that transitional arrangements have been introduced by switzerland. i am concerned that such measures may affect the mobility of higher education students between the eu and switzerland.
‒ i agree that the eea is a key factor for economic growth and the most ambitious and comprehensive instrument for extending the single market to third countries and that, in view of the evolution of the internal situation in the eu, it has proved to be a solid, effective and functional agreement capable of ensuring the integrity of the single market in the long term. i would stress that relations between the eu, the eea and efta countries and switzerland go beyond economic integration and the enlargement of the single market and contribute to stability and prosperity, to the benefit of citizens and businesses. i urge switzerland to respect the obligations arising from the ftaa, as it is one of the fundamental freedoms and a pillar of the single market and has always been an inseparable part and precondition of the eu/swiss bilateral approach. it is important to stress that any restriction on the free movement of persons risks creating an imbalance and jeopardising the benefits of the agreements for eu member states. i call on switzerland to work towards creating conditions for full participation of students in the erasmus+ programme, ensuring reciprocity of exchanges and non-penalisation of young people.
‒ the various trade agreements concluded between the european union and the swiss confederation, on the one hand, and the agreement on the european economic area, on the other, allow for the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services within the internal market of the european union. however, barriers still exist which prevent the full realisation of the single market between the eu and third countries and which therefore distort the conditions for economic growth. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet. in order to preserve the integrity of the single market, i voted in favour of the report which calls on the eea/efta states to redouble their efforts to ensure the transposition of the relevant legal acts into national law.
‒ the european free trade association (efta) member states (iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland) are the eu's main trading partners, and their relations are based on the european economic area (eea), which provides for participation in the internal market. switzerland's membership of the eea agreement was contested by a popular vote in 1992, and so relations between switzerland and the eu are now based on more than 100 sectoral agreements providing for a greater degree of integration. in addition to improvements in the rapid incorporation of the community acquis and the involvement of the eea efta states in european programmes and agencies, the rapid and correct transposition, application and enforcement of single market legislation is essential to the full realisation of the internal market. i voted in favour of this report, which, with regard to the current political situation in the swiss confederation, in particular the results of the popular initiative of 9 february 2014 'against mass emigration' and the request for renegotiation of the agreement on the free movement of persons, which is a key pillar of the internal market, raises a number of reservations and concerns with which i agree.
‒ the report criticises the introduction of unilateral measures taken by switzerland in the context of the agreement on the free movement of persons; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: despite the tone of political interference with switzerland, but also with the other countries that are part of this agreement, with which we do not agree, we believe that it should be the decision of the people of each country whether or not to join any agreement. that way, we abstain.
‒ in general terms, this report analyses relations with switzerland in the context of the agreement on the european economic area, which provides for switzerland's participation in the single market. the report criticises the introduction of unilateral measures taken by switzerland in the context of the agreement on the free movement of persons; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: despite the tone of political interference with switzerland, but also with the other countries that are part of this agreement, with which we do not agree, we believe that it should be the decision of the people of each country whether or not to join any agreement. that way, we abstain.
‒ the humanitarian refugee crisis facing europe is one of the greatest challenges the european project has ever faced. it is well known that most of the human beings who arrive today traumatised at the external borders of the european union qualify as asylum seekers, a fundamental right enshrined in international law. in this context, the only dignified attitude that is in line with the values and principles on which the eu is founded is to welcome these people. the discrepancy between the ec's plans and the willingness of the member states has caused great disappointment among most european citizens. while signs of a more generous approach are beginning to emerge, a number of measures are still needed to tackle the causes of refugees leaving their countries of origin, to establish an effective common asylum system to replace the inoperative dublin regulation, to establish humanitarian corridors or to combat hate speech. the present motion for a resolution takes these and other aspects constructively, and assertively calls for the european institutions to face the problem with vigour and courage, and that is why i feel that my vote is fully deserved.
‒ this refugee crisis poses challenges that test the limits of our project and whose solution will surely define our future in crucial ways. more than ever we need an ever closer union among the peoples of europe, concrete achievements that create, first of all, a de facto solidarity! europeans have been up to the challenge, and it is time that governments were too. this resolution makes that very clear. we must quickly deal with the drama at europe's borders, and relieve the pressure on italy, greece and hungary. and to do that we need to implement quickly the agreed measures, such as the redistribution mechanism, without prejudice to a permanent solution with mandatory quotas. in parallel, however, the union must begin to act quickly to resolve the problems at the root of this mass flight of people, which involves creating legal migration routes, a policy for targeted development, a strong external policy, a strengthening of the role of the fronte and easo, among others. parliament has long called for these measures and will no doubt continue to do so!
‒ the european parliament has called on the eu to base its response to the refugee crisis on solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility. however, the council's position has been inconsistent and unacceptable because it is based on contradictions, in particular by cutting in the 2016 budget proposal the instruments that tackle the problems of migration and refugees: the european union has also cut its contribution to the preaccession assistance instrument by eur 119 million, the european neighbourhood instrument by eur 100 million and the development cooperation instrument by eur 143 million. solidarity does not live by proclamations. solidarity is done with action. europe must be a safe and legal place of access to the asylum system, advocating the establishment of a binding quota for the distribution of asylum seekers among all eu countries, as well as contributions to refugee resettlement programmes, strengthening cooperation with third countries and stronger measures against traffickers in human beings and criminal networks of smugglers.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe. i believe that europe must show solidarity and act responsibly in the face of a serious humanitarian crisis. however, it must not fail to be lucid, distinguishing what is not the same, even for its own legitimate defense. i therefore believe that the problem which is being solved by accepting asylum seekers can only be solved at the source, by eliminating those who are able to seek economic gain, by exploiting the horrible circumstances of the tragedy of others and by fighting the insane who kill, destroy and oppress through religious fanaticism and medieval prejudice.
‒ europe is experiencing a humanitarian crisis unprecedented in recent history, due to the thousands of refugees seeking peace and security on our territory. many of those arriving are people fleeing the war in their countries and who deserve our best welcome and support. in this context, it is urgent that the necessary measures be taken to deal with the cultural and humanitarian atrocities that the islamic state has been committing in these war zones. europe has a great challenge ahead of it. while on the one hand it has a moral and humanitarian duty to welcome refugees, on the other it must be able to ensure that in the medium to long term it will find the mechanisms and tools necessary to respect the primacy of the human person in a dignified manner and to allow the return to the countries of origin of these people who yearn to live freely on their own land.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe, as i believe that the european union needs to adopt a stronger, more long-term and comprehensive approach to asylum and migration. the great instability in conflict zones, where the collapse of states and the pressure of terrorism and fanaticism endanger the dignity and survival of millions of human beings, has brought with it an unprecedented number of people seeking protection in europe. unfortunately, the current situation shows a regrettable lack of solidarity between governments towards asylum seekers, as well as insufficient coordination in european action. the european union cannot be a barrier, nor can it allow physical or political walls to be built up within it. as such, the european union must respond to this political and humanitarian challenge of refugee flows in an urgent, exemplary and supportive manner, doing everything possible to save the lives of the people who arrive daily on its territory, showing solidarity and compassion towards the large number of refugees and migrants and also working to stabilise the areas of the world in conflict.
in the light of the tragic situation in europe, with the exodus of hundreds of thousands of people fleeing war, poverty, hunger and death from countries in the middle east and africa, risking their lives in search of survival on european soil, the european parliament debated and adopted another resolution on the subject. the european institutions and this parliament have been forced to look at the problem of migration as inevitable. the text of this resolution is a demonstration of this, with some positive lines of action, but also a more general sense of a genuine declaration of intent. the hypocrisy of the majority in this european parliament, however, prevents the concrete identification of the causes that motivate such an exodus, by omitting the responsibilities that the eu and its powers have in the conflicts that are at the origin of it. at the same time, it maintains the defence of all the policies and instruments of fortress europe. the human tragedy that is taking place and the urgent need for measures to mitigate the consequences of this migratory flow prevented us from voting against it. however, in view of the absence of solutions to the causes of this humanitarian tragedy, and the lack of identification of the causes, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ today, more than ever, the achievement of peace in the middle east is of paramount importance. the violent crisis in syria, the rise of daesh, the rise of radicalism and the spread of terrorism in the middle east are creating significant security threats across the region and causing great instability. i support this resolution and express my unequivocal support for the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders and for both israelis and palestinians to avoid actions that could aggravate the situation. the expansion of israeli settlements, which is contrary to international law and fuels palestinian resentment, must be avoided. a just and lasting solution can also only be achieved with the support of the international community. i welcome the initiatives of the un security council to resume peace talks and the work of the european union police mission to the palestinian territories in the framework of the common security and defence policy.
‒ achieving peace in the middle east remains a key priority for the international community and an indispensable element for stability and security in the region, thus requiring a comprehensive regional solution. the violent crisis in syria, the rise of daesh, the rise of radicalism and the spread of terrorism in the middle east are creating significant threats to the security of israel and the entire region, exacerbating the suffering of the palestinians, but also creating shared interests between the arab states and israel, at a time when the nuclear agreement with iran, in which the eu plays a significant role, provides a unique opportunity for the peace process that should not be missed. i am concerned about the continuing impasse in the middle east peace process and it is essential that credible peace efforts be revived without delay. i agree that any lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict can only be achieved in a regional context, with the participation of all stakeholders and the support of the international community.
in writing. ‒ i believe that an understanding between the parties is possible in the near future. the eu has made a positive contribution and brought the parties closer together. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ achieving peace in the middle east remains a key priority for the international community and an indispensable element for stability and security in the region. i agree that the israeli-palestinian conflict must be seen broadly as the israeli-arab conflict and that peace in the middle east requires a comprehensive regional solution. the violent crisis in syria, the rise of daesh, the rise of radicalism and the spread of terrorism in the middle east are creating significant threats to the security of israel and the entire region, aggravating the suffering of the palestinians at a time when the nuclear agreement with iran, in which the eu plays a key role, provides a unique opportunity for the peace process that we cannot afford to lose. i note the recommendation to the israelis and palestinians to avoid actions that could aggravate the situation, including hate speech and unilateral measures that could jeopardise the outcome of the negotiations and threaten the viability of the two-state solution. i believe that any lasting resolution to the israeli-palestinian conflict can only be achieved in a regional context, with the involvement of all stakeholders and the support of the international community.
in the resolution, meps call for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that all its citizens are protected against the spread of terrorist threats. the report, which i support with my vote, calls on the commission to renew and strengthen the union's role in the middle east peace process and reminds all member states of their duty to contribute to the definition of a united position and thus to avoid unilateral initiatives which undermine the coherence of the european position based on the coexistence of two states.
‒ the european union is responsible for the huge wave of refugees which brings to mind the worst horrors of the second world war. it was the european union, and the majority of this parliament, that did everything to get libya bombed. it was then said that it was to free the libyan people. the same people as always, that is, the members of parliament who represent the interests of the big multinationals eager to control the enormous resources, enthusiastically supported everyone - regardless of whether or not they belong to terrorist organizations - as long as they were fighting the assad regime in syria. syrians today say they only want peace; those who lived in libya did too. there, as in other countries in africa and the middle east, nato and the eu are doing everything to destabilize and plunder. the consequences are the millions of refugees who, trying to survive, face the fortress europe. now, if the eu takes in the small number of 120,000 refugees, does that mean that it will continue to try to solve only the problem of those who manage to survive and not drown? when will safe and legal routes be created for migrants and refugees to travel, thus preventing, once and for all, that they are not forced to risk their lives?
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken the initiative to establish a special committee to examine the situation in the middle east. the resolution adopted by the votes of those who in the past have always crushed the right of a state and a people to exist, while expressing support for the criminal policies of israeli segregation, war and occupation, maintains the same partial position as always, which insists on attributing to the occupier and the occupied equal responsibility in the conflict that has been going on for decades, imposed by the zionist power of israel. in view of our solidarity with the struggle for the national rights of the palestinian people to an independent and sovereign homeland, and in view of some positive elements in the text for that struggle, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ since 2010, 10 people have been executed in belarus, in 2014 alone three people were executed and a new death sentence was handed down on 18 march 2015. belarus is the only country in europe that still applies the death penalty. cases of human rights violations persist in belarus, including the intimidation of human rights defenders, police raids and seizure of equipment of human rights organisations, as well as forced departure from belarus, among others, as confirmed by the report of the united nations special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in belarus. the commission should therefore call on the belarusian government to take concrete and firm steps to considerably improve freedom of expression and freedom of the media, respect for the political rights of citizens and opposition activists, and respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european union should remain firmly committed to further the defence of human rights in belarus, including freedom of expression and media freedom.
‒ despite the considerable intensification of contacts between belarus and the eu and the united states, human rights violations persist in belarus, including the intimidation of human rights defenders, police raids and the seizure of equipment belonging to human rights organisations. we are all concerned about the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in belarus, the shortcomings identified by independent international observers in the previous elections and the active persecution of opposition leaders after the elections. the eu has also called for the release of the three former members of the security council, including the former president of the council, mr giscard d'estaing.
in view of the forthcoming presidential elections in belarus and considering that free and fair elections in accordance with internationally recognised standards have not been held since 1994, this draft european parliament resolution calls on the republic of belarus to encourage the participation of the opposition in the elections. the rapporteur takes note of the fact that six political prisoners were released on 22 august 2015, stressing that the full rehabilitation of their civil and political rights could be a first step towards an improvement of eu-belarus relations. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution, hoping that the commission will support civil society in belarus in its democratic aspirations.
‒ the same european union which has not shown itself capable of giving a humane response to the refugee crisis is now once again trying to teach other third countries, in this case belarus, lessons in human rights. the same eu, which is so ready to give political, financial and military support to armed groups aimed at spreading war in libya, syria or iraq, is now passing a resolution condemning a country for the simple fact that it does not bow to the hegemonic power of the eu, the united states and nato. the same eu which disdains democracy within the european space, as was the case with the referendums in france, the netherlands or ireland, or even more recently in greece, proclaims itself the guardian of human rights and democratic values. it's a pity.
‒ the eu will face important challenges in the short term, such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation, with particular regard to the most vulnerable groups, such as young people, women, the elderly, the long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, migrants, among others. to meet these challenges, the eu will have to take into account future challenges, such as the ageing of the population or the desertification of rural areas. the social economy plays a central role in the eu's achievement of its objectives. i support this report because i believe that entrepreneurship and social innovation are key to strengthening the development of the social economy, that special attention should be paid to education and training, and that europe needs to instill this innovative and entrepreneurial spirit in young people from a very early age. i support the need to promote the development of the social economy in europe and the member states and to improve its legal framework.
in writing. ‒ social economy enterprises have proven to be more resilient to economic disruption and have been able to offer innovative solutions for social cohesion and inclusion as well as for job creation. in addition, social economy enterprises have a strong link with local and regional reality, enabling them to offer solutions adapted to specific needs. social entrepreneurship and social innovation are key to strengthening the development of the social economy, and therefore it is crucial to pay particular attention to education and training. the eu needs to instill this innovative and entrepreneurial spirit in young people from an early age.
‒ the social and solidarity economy provides jobs for more than 14 million people, which is equivalent to about 6.5% of the eu's workforce, considering that there are 2 million social and solidarity economy enterprises in the eu, which represent 10% of the union's enterprises. the commission will assess the impact of the aid on the beneficiaries and the beneficiaries' ability to pay the costs of the aid. these companies have been very important in the economic recovery and the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i would stress that, following the economic and financial crisis, poverty and social exclusion levels have increased, as have long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequalities. the most affected by the crisis were the most excluded and disadvantaged groups in the labour market, such as people with disabilities, young people, the elderly, women, the long-term unemployed and disadvantaged workers. i agree that the economic and financial crisis must be seen as an opportunity to move towards a more sustainable economic model for the eu. i argue that the social entrepreneurship model often appeals to young people, giving them an opportunity to find innovative answers to today's economic, social and environmental challenges. i consider it important that social and solidarity-based economy enterprises should be better integrated by member states into the employment and social inclusion action plans and national reform programmes, with a view to capitalising on their potential for job creation and their contribution to the achievement of the broad objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
‒ the social economy model is inspired by common values such as solidarity, social cohesion, the primacy of the individual over capital, social responsibility, democratic management and, finally, a guiding principle that promotes social impact by secondaryising profits that, if they exist, are reinvested in the company and society. during the economic and financial crisis of recent years, this business model has shown exceptional resilience to economic shocks, giving it an advantage over traditional companies. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids-related diseases, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids. the report, which i support with my vote, calls on the member states to promote an entrepreneurial culture and the cooperative and social entrepreneurship model in education and training programmes - a promotion that seeks to lay the foundations for more sustainable economic growth.
‒ the report refers to companies and organisations in the 'third sector', the so-called social and solidarity economy. it proposes the establishment of incentives for 'social entrepreneurship', considered as a more just and structural response to the socioeconomic crisis, unemployment or exclusion. despite the positive work of the so-called social and solidarity economy organisations, their socioeconomic relevance and the recognition of the appropriate support and framework these organisations deserve, the report emphasises entrepreneurship (not only in this sector) as the absolute! solution to the problems of eu societies, and business creation as the answer to which all systems (economic, educational/training) should be oriented (inclusion in school curricula of entrepreneurship subjects, for example). it also places these organisations as substitutes for public services in a trend towards the discharge of the public sector from the (public, free and quality) services they are supposed to provide to the populations. we voted against it.
‒ in the aftermath of the european economic and financial crisis, unemployment remains one of the eu's biggest challenges, with high levels, especially among the youngest. ambitious labour market economic and social policies are therefore needed, alongside those already taken by the eu and member states, which foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and generate quality jobs and jobs. i support the dlabajová report for calling for careful attention to this problem, for pointing out the need to integrate young people, women and older people into the labour market, for stressing the importance of continuing education and training in achieving a competitive labour market that generates growth, for highlighting the importance of sharing best practices between member states and for stressing the importance of innovation and the digital transition. the importance of training and retraining programmes for the unemployed is emphasised, which should be designed and implemented in such a way as to better align the new skills of workers with the needs of the labour market.
‒ unemployment remains one of the biggest challenges in the eu, with a rate of 9.9% in december 2014, with very substantial disparities between member states (4.8% in germany, compared to 23.7% in spain). youth unemployment rates are more than double that, reaching 21.4% at eu level. on the other hand, there are some 2 million jobs in the eu that are not being filled, due to both the inadequacy of skills to labour market needs and the lack of worker mobility. to combat this problem, strong partnerships between governments and employers' and workers' representatives are needed to find the best solutions to address skills mismatches in all dimensions of the labour market. member states themselves should share and learn from best practice and support initiatives that foster their own job creation and entrepreneurship, with a particular focus on smes and micro-enterprises as the backbone of the eu labour market.
‒ ambitious economic and social policies and labour market reforms are needed to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as to create more jobs and generate quality and sustainable jobs. there is also a need for sustainable social protection systems that include upgrading the skills of the unemployed, promoting the employability of people with no or very little qualifications, as well as incentives and job opportunities. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i argue that the evolution of the european labour market needs to be reflected in the skills of workers, as well as in initial and vocational training, as the demand for low-skilled workers is decreasing and the demand for highly skilled workers has increased considerably. i argue that economic and social policies and labour market reforms are urgently needed to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as to create more quality and sustainable jobs. i stress the need for sustainable social protection systems, including updating the skills of the unemployed, promoting the employability of people with no or low qualifications, and providing incentives and job opportunities. i support the measures presented in the report, which are necessary to promote both the recruitment of young workers, including support for employers to organise in-house training, and the reintegration of older workers, with the establishment of vocational retraining facilities, updating of the skills of these workers and adequate preparation for the challenges presented by new jobs.
‒ eurostat estimates that 23.067 million men and women in the eu-28 were unemployed in july 2015. the causes of high unemployment rates are complex and diverse, but in a crisis scenario where the labour market is particularly subject to the adverse effects of economic cycles, it is also important to address the structural inefficiencies inherent in the labour market. the rapporteur takes account of the available statistical indicators, which point to significant distortions between the skills of workers and the needs of the labour market. only the establishment of strong partnerships between governments and employers' and workers' representatives can address this skills mismatch and help fill the 2 million jobs in the european union that have become available as a result of this disagreement. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which calls on the member states to promote the close and systematic involvement of the labour market players (trainers and employers) so that, in a joint effort, future skills needs can be anticipated.
‒ statistical manipulation around unemployment is widespread. behind many of the figures on the decline in unemployment rates are precarious employment, insecurity and the misery of many workers. in portugal it has been decided that the so-called "employed" are not part of the unemployment rates. we are talking about workers who, instead of having a contract of employment corresponding to their permanent post - often in public institutions - are workers who have a so-called 'employment-integration contract', who attend a training course or a vocational training course. in june last year, in portugal, these workers were already more than 150 000 workers in this type of precarious employment, about 50 000 of them under the so-called 'employment-insertion contract', under which workers earn less than the minimum wage. the eu itself funds this kind of labour exploitation. in the previous financial framework, more than €95 million from the european social fund went to these pseudo-contracts. it is certainly not by increasing the flexibility of industrial relations - as you have so often repeated - that a competitive labour market will be built which will improve the lives of workers.
‒ the report advocates the creation of what it considers to be greater labour competitiveness in the eu context. the reality is that in many eu countries the unemployment rate is very high, while there are vacancies to be filled (around 2 million). the report's response to ensure this 'competitiveness' is emphasised in the document in two ways: (1) the adaptation of education and training systems to labour market needs, in particular dual training, and the involvement of the 'business world' in curriculum design; (2) the promotion of labour mobility, adaptability and flexibility. the first subordinates the educational system (an individual right which must respond to the various needs of society) to the needs of the market, while the second perpetuates precariousness, with the common excuse of the need for "competitiveness". we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ according to these reports, the main areas in which member states were subject to infringement procedures for transposition in 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and service issues, while in 2013 the most problematic areas were environment, health and consumer protection, internal market and services, and transport. the documents also show that disparities in the implementation and transposition of eu law between member states persist, and that these disparities, combined with language problems, excessive bureaucracy and a knowledge gap, have led to a union that is not accessible to citizens. i would also like to highlight the closure of 731 infringement cases because the member state concerned had demonstrated that it respected eu law and the 52 judgments delivered by the court of justice, 31 of which (59.6%) were contrary to the position of the member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law (2012-2013), which integrates the principle of the rule of law and certainty and predictability in the creation of legislation. in this respect, the correct and timely transposition of eu legislation helps to avoid differentiation between member states and distortion of the level playing field across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i would stress that citizens and businesses rely on a clear, simple, predictable and reliable regulatory framework. legal certainty is vital for the full functioning of a genuine european area of justice, while respecting the different legal systems of the member states, and the full, correct and timely application of eu law is an essential condition for achieving this objective. i agree that the commission should treat all member states equally, regardless of their size or the date of their accession to the eu, just as i recognise that disparities still exist between member states in the application and transposition of european union law, and that these disparities, combined with language problems, excessive bureaucracy and a knowledge gap, have led to a union that is not accessible to all citizens. in a european space that is to be open and global, we cannot be confronted with the difficulties arising from the unequal application of eu law in the legal systems of the different member states. i believe that late transposition, incorrect transposition and poor application of eu law can result in differentiation between member states and distort the level playing field across the eu.
‒ this report is on the 30th and 31st commission reports on the application of eu law. given that the eu was created as a union based on the rule of law, legal certainty and predictability and respect for human rights, it is essential that there be close monitoring of the acts and omissions of the member states and the eu institutions in this area. citizens and businesses must be able to rely on the full, correct and timely application of eu law. in this respect, and while the decrease in the number of pending infringement cases is welcome, more efforts are needed and the commission and the member states should think of new ways to improve the transposition and enforcement of eu law in order to address the remaining problems, in particular in the area of justice, the environment and health. i voted in favour.
‒ there are certainly positive aspects to this report, particularly when, in the recitals, the rapporteur draws attention to the fact that, in the context of the financial crisis, member states were obliged to take measures which called into question their own provisions on the protection of social rights. it is clear that the austerity measures imposed on member states, in particular the drastic cuts in public spending, have significantly reduced the capacity of the public administration and the justice system in those countries. however, we do not agree with this supervisory view, which gives the european commission the power to initiate infringement proceedings 'in order to ensure compliance with union law' and argues that the court of justice can impose sanctions on member states for late transposition of eu law, which constitutes an unacceptable disregard for the sovereignty bodies of the countries. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ this report analyses the application of eu law by member states in 2012 and 2013, including how they have transposed eu directives and applied the entire eu acquis. there are some positive aspects to this, particularly when the rapporteur draws attention in the recitals to the fact that, in the context of the financial crisis, the member states were obliged to take measures which called into question the very provisions on the protection of social and economic rights, which are expressed - at least in the field of 'theory' - in the eu acquis. we also agree with the statement that the austerity measures imposed on member states, in particular the drastic cuts in public spending, have significantly reduced the capacity of the public administration and the justice system in those countries. however, we oppose this supervisory approach, which gives the european commission the power to initiate infringement proceedings 'in order to ensure compliance with union law' and argues that the court of justice can impose sanctions on member states for late transposition of eu law, which constitutes an unacceptable disregard for the sovereignty bodies of countries. for these reasons, we voted against.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the council has failed. we need a european solution based on solidarity, and several member states are looking inward, as if they were hostages of radical and populist rhetoric. faced with an emergency situation, they decide to continue the debate after a month and only after the public scandal is called an extraordinary meeting for next week. the commission has responded well. it was courageous and it was able to listen to what reality demands and what this parliament has long been asking for. i have heard criticism of the reintroduction of border controls in germany. this is a respectable decision, from someone who is setting an example by taking in more refugees than anyone else. it is important to remember that reintroducing controls is not the same as closing borders. some are reintroducing controls to improve reception of refugees, and others are doing so to make access more difficult, to close the borders and to attack the free movement of schengen. schengen is not threatened by refugees. schengen is being threatened by the political exploitation of some governments and the inaction of the council. i repeat what we have been saying: europe needs a response that is up to its responsibilities. parliament and the european commission agree. it is time for the council to act and to act well.
in writing. the commission must impose sanctions on hungary and any member state that refuses to take in refugees and prevents the opening of legal and safe pathways for those seeking protection. how can the epp keep in its ranks the party of orbán which attacks refugees, including with tear gas, bringing back the worst demons of europe from the past? those who use security as an excuse to violate human rights, international law and european laws and values are in fact playing into the hands of the criminal terrorists of the islamic state, who want civilization to go backwards. this is also a crisis of our security, because the eu has not acted to stop the war in syria, iraq, libya and oppression in other countries, as it is failing to fight the terrorists of the islamic state - and so people are fleeing to europe for protection. it's not just winter that's coming: desperate people -- refugees and migrants -- will continue to come, with or without barbed wire. the more walls we build, the more europe will feel encircled. disunity and inaction are recipes for ruin. we won't allow it. the council must take its responsibilities and now!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commitment reached in addis ababa at the conference on financing for development was an important step towards the post-2015 agenda, but it fell far short of the need for concrete financial commitments. the same is true of the response of the international community and the european union to the refugee tragedy, not only in terms of humanitarian reception but above all in terms of responding to the causes of these desperate migratory flows. there is too much talk, too much excitement, too many minutes of silence, too little solidarity, too little development cooperation, too little concrete action. if, in new york and paris, at the conferences that are to follow, this happens again, then these conferences will pass by the encounter with history and will be unfortunately a missed opportunity. we need concrete, binding and verifiable commitments. i hope that the european union can be a united voice on the right side and live up to its responsibilities.
in writing. the so-called coherence of development policies requires, among other things: 1) the rejection of mechanisms of plunder and domination, such as the external debt and its service; 2) the rejection of the so-called structural adjustment programmes of the imf and the world bank; 3) the rejection of policies of liberalization and deregulation of world trade; 4) the rejection of the free movement of capital and its criminal footholds, such as tax havens; 5) and a strengthened and genuine development aid policy. the degradation of nature and the alteration of a number of important natural balances, including climate, as well as poverty, social exclusion, unemployment and economic recession and ruin, are various dimensions in which the deep crisis of capitalism as the dominant mode of economic and social organization on a global scale is expressed. there is no possible sustainability within the framework of an inherently unjust, unequal, oppressive and predatory system of nature and its resources. it is from the radical break with this system that the solution to the burning problems our planet is grappling with will emerge.
in writing. 2015 will go down in history as the year in which the 17 sustainable development goals were set at a un summit in new york (usa) from 25 to 27 september. it is the new 2030 agenda for action, which builds on the progress and lessons learned from the eight millennium development goals between 2000 and 2015, many of which are still to be achieved. this agenda, the result of the joint work of governments and citizens around the world to create a new global model to end poverty, promote prosperity and well-being for all, protect the environment and combat climate change, is now confronted with an outdated economic system that has become part of the problem rather than the solution. as long as the economic power of multinational companies overwhelms the political sovereignty of peoples and nations, all pious intentions will be thwarted by the interests of high finance, which does not hesitate to resort to war to ensure its domination and survival. until the people rise up.
in writing. the energy union and the digital union are the key economic and political drivers for the european union to improve its geopolitical positioning, increase the competitiveness of the economy, strengthen territorial cohesion and contribute to a more people-centred and planet-friendly globalisation. the european commission's summer package on the energy union sets out the right foundations for the success of the agenda, including reform of the emissions trading market, the revision of the efficiency labelling system, the provision of self-production facilities to consumers and the re-design of the single energy market. in this area, the european council's position on the governance of the energy union provides for a model of concerted planning, initiated by member states in the framework of action plans with quantified targets and subject to evaluation and monitoring by the european commission. the european union has made its main progress in responding to political and economic crises. the energy union, like the digital union, cannot expect the european union to agree on migration, because they are themselves part of the solution to this central issue.
mr president, the situation in agriculture is disastrous and it was to be expected. by abandoning all public regulatory instruments, successive revisions of the cap, with particular emphasis on the last one in 2013, have generated this hell that threatens the survival of an entire sector. the replacement of these public instruments by derivative financial products only increased volatility and served to further fatten financial groups. the recent demonstration of farmers in brussels, which follows on from so many others elsewhere in europe, is the most eloquent proof of the utter failure of a new cap geared to the complete liberalization of the markets. the european commission's response is clearly insufficient. it is urgent to intervene on the markets to sustain the price collapse, but it is equally urgent to start working now on a complete overhaul of the whole of the common agricultural policy, in defence of our traditional model, which is the only one capable of guaranteeing sustainable and safe agriculture.
mr president, i thank the council and the commission for their presence and i hope that commissioner hogan will make a full recovery. the measures announced for the agricultural sector are welcome. the commissioner has listened, of course, but he has only listened when he wanted to and to what he wanted to. the commissioner has repeatedly denied the warnings this house has given him in relation to the milk sector. it took farmers travelling to brussels to get their needs met and they did so in good time. these measures, i repeat, are welcome, but they are not the solution to the problems which are becoming structural in the milk sector and which have been exacerbated by the russian embargo. we need solutions for yesterday that guarantee a fair price to producers and maintain production where there are no alternative economic activities, and we need to ensure that productive regions with comparative disadvantages are properly taken into account in the design of support and new instruments that can effectively regulate supply.
mr president, the five hundred million euros announced as the solution to this deep crisis only postpone the taking of structural decisions for two or three months, commissioner. the budget for portugal is insufficient. what about allocating 4.8 million euros to a country when in one of its regions, the azores, losses already exceed 30 million? it is unfair to apply the same allocation key to member states that are suffering the enormous impact of this crisis on an equal footing with others that have contributed most to it. as for the information and promotion programmes, i ask you: does the commission consider that the agricultural sector, particularly in regions such as the azores, which are running into losses, will be able to co-finance any action? i ask you to consider financing the whole of the regions most affected by the milk crisis, otherwise only the large european companies will have that capacity. commissioner, milk production in the azores is a structural pillar of our economy because, due to our natural constraints, we have no alternative. we know how to produce milk and produce it with high quality, and your failure to take decisions, your failure to look at these regions, as provided for in the treaties, is leading to a slow death of the sector with enormous financial, social, family and economic losses.
‒ the european commission adopts an action plan for the next 12 months which tells european citizens and institutional partners how it intends to turn its political priorities into concrete actions. this programme, presented in october, is discussed with the european parliament and the council before its adoption, and the commission takes the ep's views into account when drawing up its priorities for the following year. i believe that the next work programme should continue to address the emerging challenges facing europe, namely growth and jobs, the implementation of the digital single market strategy, energy independence and climate change, and a genuine european agenda on migration flows. in this connection, i consider it urgent to combat irregular migration and to manage migration flows better, not forgetting a possible review of visa policy and a european solution for the reception of refugees. i welcome the adoption of the european fund for strategic investments, and look forward to its rapid implementation in concrete investment projects for a rapid and sustainable recovery, as well as the objective of better regulation.
‒ europe must respond with clarity of vision and direction, with leadership, ambition and courage to the challenges we face, both at home and abroad, to show that it is able to meet citizens' expectations, offer them perspectives and generate confidence. the eu must present itself as a truly democratic union, a parliamentary democracy and a space where citizens can direct and shape their continent for the sake of preserving and consolidating their standard of living. the commission should therefore take the 10 strategic priorities as its top priority, thus giving a new impetus to jobs, growth and investment, fighting tax fraud and evasion, creating a connected and inclusive digital single market, making the union more energy resilient and with a visionary climate change policy. the commission must prepare a strong response to the eu's social problems, including unemployment, skills shortages, social inequalities and social exclusion, as well as the risks of social dumping and brain drain.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the european union is now preparing to launch a new initiative to combat terrorism. the eternal consensus between the right and the social democrats (with the 'liberals' and 'greens' making up the fray) and the guidelines it has set out here demonstrate that those responsible for the current situation have not learned a single lesson from the crisis they have created. it cannot be said that they did not learn from their mistakes because they were not mistakes, but deliberate choices, as is shown here. the economic stagnation and recession, unemployment, poverty, social inequalities and the growing divergence between member states are being met by the deepening of the neoliberal policies that have created this whole situation and by further restrictions on the sovereignty of the peoples and democracy, with the aim of further increasing the economic dependence and political subordination of countries like portugal, which are increasingly being subjugated by the big powers, with germany at the head. the directive also seeks to deepen the militaristic aspect of the eu in order to better satisfy its imperial impulse. we voted against it and with the amendments we have tabled we have indicated an alternative path which is possible and increasingly necessary and which the peoples will make their own by fighting for it.
‒ this resolution contains parliament's recommendations with a view to preparing the commission work programme for 2016. parliament called on the commission to present an ambitious work programme to meet the challenges of climate change, energy independence, the transition to a digital society, respect for democratic values and fundamental rights, job creation, growth and investment. other priorities include the call for the removal of obstacles to the single market, the completion of the digital single market and the internal energy market, the development of a capital markets union, the strengthening of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion, the adoption of a comprehensive approach to migration and asylum and the presentation of a proposal for the next phase of the europe 2020 strategy, as well as the action plan to be adopted for the deepening of emu. i voted in favour.
‒ by acting as a bridge between the left and the right represented in the ep, the socialist party played a key role in the adoption of this resolution on what should be the commission's priorities for 2016. in order to overcome the various crises facing europe, a number of concrete proposals were put forward: a total rejection of any attempt to limit the provisions of the schengen agreement and the adoption of a more efficient european asylum and migration policy, including a system of urgent relocation; a european policy focusing on social investment and combating inequalities, poverty and unemployment through access to quality public services; an ambitious strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through better implementation of the europe 2020 strategy; the continuation of the reform of the economic and monetary union to reduce economic and social disparities in the countries that make up the euro area.
in the first place, the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to combat terrorism in all its forms. the facts and the answers unfortunately demonstrate that those responsible for the present situation have not learned a single lesson from the crisis they have created. they do not want to learn the lesson because it is not a mistake but rather a deliberate political choice in the service of capital and the great powers who rule this european union through the parties that support their interests. for the people, stagnation, economic recession, unemployment, poverty, social inequalities and growing divergence between member states continue. and the responses continue with the deepening of the neoliberal policies that generated this whole framework and with more limitations on the sovereignty of the peoples and democracy, aimed at further economic dependence and political subordination of countries like portugal. this neo-liberal, federalist and militarist european union has no future and is now part of the problem and not the solution. we are for another europe of the peoples, of solidarity and respect for the sovereignty of each state and its right to choose its own development strategy. another europe to be built on the ruins of this one.
‒ the european union has a matrix which imposes the defence of human dignity without any restrictions. human dignity is inalienable. the value of solidarity has to be practiced. member states must put aside national selfishness and work towards a common solution to this problem. a united and common approach is urgently needed. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for the emergency relocation of 120,000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary to other member states. we must do everything we can to save human lives and welcome them. but we have to solve the problem at the source. this will require an increase in the instruments, programmes and funds contributing to the development of the countries of origin. the search for a peaceful solution to these territories is imperative. i hope that the european union will, in this difficult time, put into practice the values of solidarity, equality and fraternity.
‒ the developments of the past few weeks have exposed the hypocrisy of the talk about a supposed eu humanitarian response to the refugee crisis. these developments reveal the inhuman nature of this response, which is, after all, the nature of the european union itself. what has been sold to the peoples of europe as a space of progress and development, of peace, of solidarity, of respect for human rights, reveals to us, in the face of general horror, its true nature. walls and barbed wire erected and dogs launched against those fleeing war and hunger; detention camps where everything is missing, starting with the dignity denied to refugees. this commission proposal falls short of what is necessary and contains aspects with which we disagree. however, it is imperative that at least the support package provided here can be used for the refugees who will thus be relocated from italy, greece and hungary to other member states. and that can be done now, with the obvious urgency of the situation on the ground. we therefore vote in favour of this proposal without introducing any amendments which could delay the process of its adoption. but unfortunately, even this support package will probably be blocked in the council.
‒ the refugee crisis is a clear demonstration of the hypocrisy of the talk about a supposed eu humanitarian response. these developments reveal the inhuman nature of this response, which is, after all, the nature of the european union itself. the whole image of europe as a place of progress and development, of peace, solidarity and respect for human rights, which has been so laboriously constructed, is thus thrown to the ground. in the face of the general horror, with the walls and barbed wire erected and dogs launched against those fleeing war and hunger, the detention camps, where everything is missing to begin with the dignity denied to refugees, we are left with only this cry of indignation at the cold reaction of a europe that is postponing an urgent solution for these thousands of human beings who are victims of the imperialism of the eu, the united states and nato. the commission falls short of what is necessary and has aspects which defy the values of human dignity. however, it is imperative that at least the support package provided here can be used to help refugees. we therefore vote in favour of this proposal without introducing any amendments which could delay the process of its adoption. but unfortunately, even this support package will probably be blocked in the council.
madam president, i would like to greet all the members, all the members, to congratulate the commissioner and to congratulate the commission on this proposal - a proposal which is intended to strengthen solidarity - but budgetary solidarity in the european union has been in existence for many decades. i would remind you that the european social fund has actually been in existence since 1958. but this is a strengthening of solidarity which will relieve greece, which is in financial difficulty, a liquidity difficulty, and will therefore be able to use the funds with less financial effort on its part. this lesser financial effort, this greater solidarity, requires greater vigilance, requires additional responsibility. the 100% cofinancing amounts, the prefinancing rates correspond to about 2 billion euros, require that these amounts be used for projects that are sustainable. we want intelligent solidarity, which contributes to greece's growth, which contributes to the strengthening of greece's competitiveness, which brings more jobs, and therefore these funds, in addition to social cohesion, in addition to economic cohesion, must also bring greater wealth to the european union, greater wealth to greece, and we hope, we are convinced, that greece, the greek authorities, have here an opportunity that they cannot waste. we are once again expressing our solidarity and we ask the greek authorities to show the same solidarity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the austerity policies have had a terrible impact on the lives of the individuals, families, companies and countries affected by the troika. there is no country that, in seeking so-called help, has not been a victim of its own family. i am referring to the european family. and when i say "pretended help", it's because it's nothing more than that: pretended. austerity has failed, austerity has only created more misery, more poverty, more bankruptcies, more fear, more immigration, more flight from the top, depression and suicide. we're talking about people, not numbers. when i say this to you, it seems as if i'm describing my country, portugal. we have felt in portugal for four years the hardship of being europe's youngest son. greece has been severely punished by years of austerity. in addition, hundreds of refugees arrive in greece every day and we are almost asking greece to deal with the matter itself. greece is asking for real help. this aid is provided by the adoption of specific support measures through european funds. these measures are an investment opportunity and an austerity relief. it is not a question of giving more money to greece, it is a question of anticipating that funding, it is a question of promoting growth and employment. we know that cohesion policies are fundamental for the countries most affected by the crisis. without cohesion policies, things would be even worse. some question whether this money will be well spent, but just as there has been technical assistance for austerity, there should naturally also be the same assistance for investment.
mr president, this proposal is welcome, given the social emergency experienced by the greek people. we would point out that this situation is the result of decades of austerity, with the imposition of programmes of interference and external intervention. these are policies designed to guarantee the profits of the big economic groups and the big european finance, and which have been bleeding the greek people, leaving them poorer, more dependent and tied to an unsustainable and unjust debt. this aid is therefore positive and may alleviate the suffering of many people. however, this is only a palliative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the greek economy is restored to a sound basis and in accordance with the will of the greek people. the situation in greece confirms our analysis based on the reality in portugal. it is urgent to open a negotiating process for renegotiating sovereign debts at european union level and to hold an intergovernmental conference to revise the budgetary treaty and eliminate the monetary divide that prevents any possibility of alternative and sovereign development.
in writing. i believe that traditions strengthen our roots and promote development. portugal is very rich in handicrafts, embroidery and pottery. these products should benefit from a european system for the protection of geographical indications. in this way we protect the production method, tie the product to the site, preserve knowledge and jobs and give reliable information to the consumer. this legislation should promote innovation in traditional production processes and the creation of new businesses, as has been the case in portugal and, above all, in minho, as evidenced by the vila verde sweetheart scarves and the namorar portugal initiative. it should be noted that micro and small enterprises account for about 80% of typical local products. the viana embroidery, the guimarães embroidery and the vinhais mask are examples of products which could benefit from the legislation i am advocating.
no, president tusk, the fortress europe that you seem to want is not going to protect europeans. the governments in the council have long been in denial and have therefore failed to welcome the influx of refugees in solidarity, delay the opening of legal and safe routes so that we do not continue to feed the traffickers' business, and have failed to combat it politically, ideologically, diplomatically and militarily. there are causes of the crisis, there is war in syria, chaos in libya, the islamic state expanding. they now think they can contain the exodus by dumping buckets of money in the neighborhood instead of at least ensuring that there are schools for children and young people in the refugee camps. they are deceiving europeans with nationalist reactions which fragment the union and prevent coordinated internal and external action, violate the principles and values of the union, and play into the hands of terrorists who want to destroy democracy and human rights. the challenges we face can only be overcome through strategic convergence, sharing and synergies of resources and capabilities, a common foreign and security policy and defence. stop boycotting them in the council. we need more unity, not more walls. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – you are right, colleague, but that is exactly why i ask governments to stop boycotting the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy in the european council. we need them. we need to act strategically. only by being coordinated can we make the difference: for example, to end the war in syria – rather than making it worse, as that would be a victory for assad – and actually act in support of those who are on the ground fighting islamic state, for instance the peshmerga in northern iraq, whom we are not helping at all, or only in a fragmented and uncoordinated way, thus failing our own citizens. we are failing the security and defence of our own citizens by not addressing the root causes of what makes people flee, be it in syria, be it in eritrea or elsewhere.
mr president, mr schmit, mr timmermans, this debate is about the humanitarian situation of refugees in the european union. and we haven't heard anything about that. we've heard about grocery lists and bills, but we haven't heard about the humanitarian situation of refugees. where are the records of people being fed in animal pens, of people being numbered at the entrance to european countries, of people being stuffed on trains and abandoned in places they don't even know where they are, of people being housed in former concentration camps? this is the humanitarian situation of many refugees in the european union. the treaty you have approved, your treaty, says that european values are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. gentlemen, the treaty is not to be applied a la carte. with austerity they've already ripped half of it, with the refugee crisis they're on the verge of throwing it all away. what are you going to do to mr. orban, what are you going to do to your friend? should he abide by the treaty or is he an exception?
mr president, we are facing a huge humanitarian emergency, as vice-president timmermans has said. the worst thing would have been, once again, to do nothing. the commission has taken the initiative and put forward good proposals, but the council, mr schmit, when it decides, it does so too late and too little. the council is called upon to remember that we are not facing a border crisis but a refugee crisis, and that we must improve our development aid. but throwing money at problems is not the way to solve them. that it is not the refugees who are putting schengen in question, but the reaction and measures of some of the member states, and that it is the fact that 120,000 is an insufficient number to respond to the scale of the problem. today, member states are required to respect the law and cooperate. the commission is required to exercise its powers as guardian of the treaties and to ensure that schengen and asylum laws are respected and we have to cooperate with neighbouring countries, cooperate with frontline countries, cooperate with member states receiving the most asylum applications, cooperation has never been more urgent and necessary than today.
in writing. the situation is dramatic and has been dragging on for months without the eu being able to give a response consistent with the values it proclaims. the refugee crisis is the most eloquent proof of the complete hypocrisy of this eu that talks so much about democracy and human rights but is incapable of responding to the problems it has created by fomenting chaos and war in libya, syria and iraq. the aid announced at this extraordinary meeting is welcome but it remains very scarce, especially in view of the 40 billion euros in arms being sold to the countries of the middle east. on the other hand, substantive solutions concerning humanitarian corridors, the revision of the dublin agreements or the resolution of the conflicts which continue to flare up in north africa and the middle east are still being delayed.
madam president, i want to say that there is no inconsistency in this vote. there is no illegality. and after a while, we would be saying that when there was a matter of a country that concerned us, we could not vote on that matter. it is therefore perfectly legal, it is even a way of bringing members closer to reality and to the electorate, and this situation has taken place without any drama, without any problems, without any illegality.
in writing. ‒ this is a protocol to the forced labour convention, which is one of the eight international labour organisation conventions that form the core of international labour law instruments. this protocol in particular aims to address the problems, shortcomings and difficulties in the progress made in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as the protection and compensation of victims of this scourge. as this is a matter in which member states and the union share competence, the european parliament also needs to give its consent for the member states to ratify the protocol on behalf of the union. that's what you do with my support today.
‒ the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are currently victims of forced labour and this draft resolution aims to eliminate disparities, develop the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and protect and compensate victims of forced labour. with regard to victims, the protocol provides that effective measures are to be taken for their identification, release, protection, recovery and rehabilitation, as well as for other forms of assistance and support. the ratification of the protocol is therefore an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in guaranteeing the rights of victims of crime throughout europe. its ratification by the member states will facilitate the fight against traffickers.
‒ the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in guaranteeing the rights of victims of this crime throughout europe. let us hope that the member states will ratify it quickly so that we can effectively fight to put an end to the millions of cases of people subjected to forced labour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify the ilo convention on forced labour in matters relating to cooperation in criminal matters. it is one of the eight core ilo labour conventions, and is inextricably linked to the protection of human rights. the new ilo protocol, adopted by the 103rd session of the international labour conference, aims to prevent the use of forced labour, particularly in the context of trafficking in human beings, by improving the protection of victims and providing for access to compensation.
‒ with the adoption of the convention in 1930, the international labour conference encouraged member countries to end the use of forced labour as soon as possible. more than 80 years later, the international labour organization estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the protocol aims to eliminate disparities in implementation, to develop the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and to protect and compensate victims of forced labour. it is important to note that the 2014 protocol deals with fundamental rights, victims and the fight against trafficking in human beings, a crime that affects individuals but also society and the economy as a whole. i believe that ratification of the protocol will be decisive in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in guaranteeing the rights of victims of crime throughout europe.
‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions on basic international labour standards. the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. this protocol creates legal obligations for the countries that ratify it. it is an important step in the fight against human trafficking and in ensuring the rights of victims of crime across europe.
‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions. we are faced with a draft legislative resolution approving the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the eu, the 2014 protocol updating the ilo forced labour convention, 1930, as regards articles 1 and 4 of the protocol, as regards matters related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this measure obliges member states to develop a national policy and action plan for the effective and lasting elimination of forced labour, by adopting measures to ensure the full application of the legislation in this field and to protect workers from any abusive practices of recruitment and forced labour. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the rights of the child, including the right to be free from all forms of discrimination, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children from all forms of discrimination.
‒ the recommendation concerns the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention, which is one of the eight core conventions of the world labour organisation (ilo) on international labour standards. with the adoption of the convention in 1930, the international labour conference urged member countries to end the use of forced labour. yet, more than 80 years later, the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the protocol requires ilo member countries to develop national policies and action plans for the effective and lasting elimination of forced labour. the ratification of the protocol is an important step in judicial cooperation in criminal matters and in the fight against trafficking in human beings to guarantee the inalienable rights of victims.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the dangers of new drugs require rapid and concerted action by states at european level. when a new substance is detected, the member state should inform europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which will also assess the risk to public health and associated crime. at the end of the procedure, they may request member states to take control or prohibition measures. although parliament's involvement is unnecessary given the purely technical content of this decision , parliament must be consulted and must give its opinion. this psychoactive substance has been detected in 15 member states, has caused several deaths, is very similar in appearance to amphetamine and is usually distributed by the same groups linked to trafficking in amphetamine.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of drugs, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
‒ the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures is part of the need to control and assess the risks of new psychoactive substances, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we have seen the emergence and proliferation of new psychoactive substances, many of which escape the legal prohibitions and restrictions of the member states, as these drugs are easily manipulated and adulterated in laboratories. 4-methylamphetamine a new psychoactive substance derived from amphetamines, detected in 15 member states and a laboratory for its production found in one of them has caused 21 fatalities. i believe that the european union should find a mechanism to deal with this situation, to protect consumers and to prevent new illegal substances from permeating the markets.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine (a psychoactive) is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine. while the assessment of the risks of this substance to health and society still lacks some scientific demonstration, there is already sufficient basis for establishing control measures in the eu. 21 deaths were recorded in 4 member states related to the substance, which was detected in 15 member states and is linked to organised crime groups.
in writing. ‒ with the use of the psychoactive substance 4-methylamphetamine detected in 15 member states and with reasonable suspicions that it may be produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups involved in the manufacture and trafficking of amphetamines, it is essential to subject this substance to control measures across the union, because of the health risks it poses. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which approves the draft council implementing decision on this matter.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine is a synthetic methylated ring derivative of amphetamine, which has been predominantly seized in powder and paste form in samples containing amphetamines and caffeine, but has also been found in tablets and liquids. the main chemical precursor for the synthesis of 4-methylamphetamine is 4methylbmk, which appears to be marketed on the internet and is not controlled under the 1988 united nations convention against illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the dangers of new drugs require rapid and concerted action by states at european level. when a new substance is detected, the member state should inform europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which will also assess the risk to public health and associated crime. at the end of the procedure, they may request member states to take control or prohibition measures. although parliament's involvement is unnecessary given the purely technical content of this decision , parliament must be consulted and must give its opinion. the substance has been detected in nine member states and is already controlled in five, with several deaths associated with its use.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission is responsible for the implementation of the directive, and the council is responsible for the implementation of the directive.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following substances:
‒ i submit that 5(2aminopropyl) indole, a new psychoactive substance, should be subject to control measures in all the member states of the european union and to the criminal sanctions provided for in their respective legislation, by virtue of the obligations assumed under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. the main reason, according to the information available in the risk assessment reports, is that the high toxicity of these substances can seriously harm human health. in addition, the risks are aggravated by the fact that some individuals are reported to be using these substances inadvertently in combination with other psychoactive substances or as substitutes. i believe that the proliferation of new psychoactive substances, which are harmful to human health, should be regarded as a public health problem and that it is imperative that they be combated.
in writing. ‒ 5-[2-aminopropyl] is a psychoactive substance that can be marketed on the internet. while the assessment of the risks of this substance to health and society still lacks some scientific demonstration, there is already sufficient basis for establishing control measures in the eu. 24 deaths have been recorded related to the substance, which has been detected in 9 member states and is linked to organised crime groups.
‒ following analysis of the psychoactive substance 5{2-aminopropyl) indole by the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, it was found that it may produce hallucinogenic and other adverse effects in humans and is even available on the internet and in 'head shops'. in view of the 24 deaths recorded in four member states, there are good reasons for subjecting this substance to control measures throughout the union, because of the health risks it poses. i therefore voted in favour of this legislative resolution, which approves the draft council implementing decision to ask all member states to subject this substance to control measures.
in writing. ‒ the substance 5(2aminopropyl) indole is a synthetic derivative of indole substituted in the phenyl part of the indole ring system. it appears to be a stimulant substance, which may also have hallucinogenic effects. the substance 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole was mainly found in powder form, but also in the form of tablets and capsules. it was also detected in samples of a product sold similar to ecstasy tablets and is marketed on the internet. existing information and data suggest that the acute toxicity of 5(2aminopropyl) indole may cause adverse effects in humans such as tachycardia, hyperthermia, agitation and tremor. the specific physical effects of 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole in humans are difficult to determine because there are no published studies assessing its acute and chronic toxicity, its psychological and behavioural effects, or the potential for dependence, and therefore there is little information and limited data available.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the dangers of new drugs require rapid and concerted action by states at european level. when a new substance is detected, the member state should inform europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which will also assess the risk to public health and associated crime. at the end of the procedure, they may request member states to take control or prohibition measures. although parliament's involvement is unnecessary given the purely technical content of this decision , parliament must be consulted and must give its opinion. the three drugs have been detected in a large proportion of member states and the degree of control varies between legislation and other measures. in all, they have caused about 200 deaths and hundreds of nonfatal poisonings. of particular concern is 25i-nbome, sold as a legal version of lsd.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of drugs, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following substances:
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a council decision on the control of 251-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine.
in writing. ‒ new psychoactive substances such as 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-{1-{dimethylamino) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4{methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{3-methoxyphenyl) 2-{ethylamino) cyclohexanone (methoxetamine) should be subject to control measures in all member states of the european union and to the penalties provided for in their respective legislation, by virtue of the obligations assumed under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. according to the information available in the risk assessment reports, the high toxicity of these substances can seriously harm human health. in addition, the risks are aggravated by the fact that some individuals are reported to be using these substances inadvertently in combination with other psychoactive substances or as substitutes. i believe that the proliferation of new psychoactive substances, which are harmful to human health, should be regarded as a public health problem and that it is imperative that they be combated.
‒ while the assessment of the health and societal risks of these substances (25i-nbome hallucinogen; ah-7921 opioid analgesic; mdvp psychotropic; methoxetamine anesthetic/narcotic) still lacks some scientific evidence, there is already sufficient basis for establishing control measures in the eu. all of these substances are linked to multiple homicides and organized crime.
‒ following an analysis by the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine have been found to have hallucinogenic effects and have caused intoxications and deaths in several member states due to their high toxicity. given that these substances are sold on the internet and pose serious health risks, it is essential that member states subject them to control measures throughout the union, and for this reason i voted in favour of this legislative resolution, which approves the draft council implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the the substances 25i-nbome, ah7921, mdpv and methoxetamine were not subject to assessment at the united nations level at the time the union risk assessment was requested, but were assessed in june 2014 by the world health organisation committee of experts on drug addiction. there were four deaths associated with 25i-nbome recorded in three member states. serious toxicity associated with its use has been reported in four member states. if this new psychoactive substance becomes widely available and used, the implications for individual and public health could be significant. substance ah-7921 is a structurally atypical synthetic opioid analgesic commonly known by internet vendors as 'doxylam'. it can easily be confused with doxylamine, an antihistamine drug with sedative-hypnotic properties, which could lead to accidental overdoses. information on the acute and chronic toxicity associated with mdpv, as well as on its psychological and behavioural effects and on the potential for dependence, is not adequately known throughout the union. information from published studies, supported by clinical cases, suggests that the observed psychopharmacological profile for mdpv is similar to that of cocaine and methamphetamine, albeit more potent and longer lasting. in addition, mdpv is ten times more potent in its ability to induce locomotor activation, tachycardia and hypertension.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the dangers of new drugs require rapid and concerted action by states at european level. when a new substance is detected, the member state should inform europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which will also assess the risk to public health and associated crime. at the end of the procedure, they may request member states to take control or prohibition measures. although parliament's involvement is unnecessary given the purely technical content of this decision , parliament must be consulted and must give its opinion. both drugs have caused several deaths. 4,4'-dmar is already sold on the street, often as ecstasy or amphetamines. there are 31 known deaths in the span of a year. in the case of mt-45, 28 deaths were detected in a period of just over six months and its level of toxicity is several times that of morphine.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of drugs, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a council decision on the control of substances containing 4,4′-dmar and mt-45 in the form of a directive.
‒ i submit that 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-di-hydroxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45), a new psychoactive substance, should be subject to control measures in all the member states of the european union and to the criminal sanctions provided for in their respective legislation, by virtue of the obligations assumed under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. according to the information available in the risk assessment reports, the high toxicity of these substances can seriously harm human health. in addition, the risks are aggravated by the fact that some individuals are reported to be using these substances inadvertently in combination with other psychoactive substances or as substitutes. i believe that the proliferation of new psychoactive substances, which are harmful to human health, should be regarded as a public health problem and that it is imperative that they be combated.
in writing. ‒ while the assessment of the risks to health and society of these substances (4,4'-dmar synthetic stimulant; mt-45 analgesic) still lacks some scientific evidence, there is already sufficient basis for establishing control measures in the eu. all of these substances are linked to multiple homicides and organized crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision subjecting 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures. these substances have been classified as synthetic stimulants and are being consumed as a substance on their own and sold on the illicit market as ecstasy and amphetamines. in the united kingdom, the number of deaths from the use of 4,4'-dmar in the last year was estimated at around 11,000, with a further 1,400 deaths from the use of the drug in the last year. for these reasons, it is considered absolutely essential to subject both substances to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ 4,4'-dmar has emerged in the new psychoactive substances market as an 'experimental chemical' sold on the internet, and is now available in street markets. 4,4'-dmar is being sold and consumed as a substance on its own, but it has also been incorrectly sold in the illicit market as ecstasy and amphetamine. 28 deaths occurred between november 2013 and july 2014 in a member state, with the majority of cases detected in biological samples for mt-45. eighteen non-fatal poisonings were also reported by the same member state. clinical features were identified as being similar to those of opioid intoxication.
‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state and to countries negotiating its accession in the event of a major natural disaster. this fund complements public funds from member states in emergency situations, in particular for the urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure, temporary accommodation and emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population, as well as for the cleaning up of the areas affected by the disaster. in 2015, bulgaria was affected by severe winter conditions that caused a 'large scale natural disaster' - and greece was affected by two catastrophes - floods in the evros river basin and in central regions of greece - considered 'regional disasters'. following the disasters, the countries concerned requested assistance from the european union solidarity fund. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 16 274 765 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund to alleviate the pain, suffering and loss of those affected by these disasters.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and the fund's intervention should not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. bulgaria submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following severe winter conditions. greece submitted two applications to mobilise the fund, following floods. i agree, therefore the fund should be mobilised in the amount of €16 274 765 to meet the requests made by bulgaria and greece.
‒ the eusf aims to provide a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the eusf was requested to be mobilised to provide financial assistance following a disaster in bulgaria (severe winter conditions causing a 'large scale natural disaster' as defined by the eusf) and two disasters in greece (floods in the evros river basin and central regions of greece, considered 'regional disasters' as defined by the eusf). these storms caused considerable damage to public infrastructure, including dams, communication networks and roads, as well as to businesses, housing and private property (more than 300 buildings in burgas were flooded), and damaged the agricultural and forestry sectors in bulgaria, and caused damage to essential infrastructure, public buildings, private housing, businesses and the agricultural sector in greece, destroying agricultural infrastructure, warehouses and crops. i support the adoption of this report, since it meets the requirements.
‒ this is a report on the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for financial assistance following a disaster in bulgaria (severe winter conditions) and two disasters in greece (floods in the evros river basin and central regions of greece). the total amount of aid proposed was €16 274 765 (10% already advanced).
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, totalling eur 16,3 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) eur 6,4 million for bulgaria and eur 9,9 million for greece as a financial response to the devastating natural disasters that occurred in those member states in early 2015. from the analysis of the report, the criteria for the mobilisation of the eusf are met and, being aware of the nature of the disasters, their scale and the profound impact these tragedies have had on local communities, i voted in favour of this mobilisation.
‒ in late january and early february 2015, large areas of bulgaria were hit by heavy rainfall, snow, flooding and landslides, with the south-eastern region being the most affected. these phenomena have caused considerable damage. in early february 2015, the regions of eastern macedonia and thrace were hit by widespread flooding, which caused damage to essential infrastructure, public buildings, private housing, businesses, as well as to the agricultural sector in greece, destroying agricultural infrastructure, warehouses and crops. in the same period, large areas of the central and western regions of greece were affected by another series of floods, which caused even greater damage, resulting in power cuts, the isolation of several mountain villages and the destruction of some greek cultural heritage assets. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance. we agree with this mobilisation, but we must also point out that the sectoral policies of the european union - such as the cap - contribute to an increase in the exposure of certain regions to the risk of disasters.
‒ a number of agricultural products (by origin or production by traditional methods) enjoy protection of geographical indications in the eu. it is desirable that such protection be extended to non-agricultural and traditional products such as handicrafts, embroidery and ceramics, which currently do not have a single system of protection, enjoying different levels of protection in the member states. in portugal, this will be the case, among others, of the arraiolos carpets or the handkerchiefs of the lovers of minho, so well defended by mr josé manuel fernandes. i fully support mrs rozière's report because it considers it vital to protect these traditional quality products based on traditional know-how and techniques which are part of the eu's cultural heritage and which generate activities directly related to local ways of life, especially in rural areas, helping to increase the attractiveness of these areas, to preserve local identities and to promote their specificity, with benefits for tourism, culture, employment and trade. in addition to the economic potential and the protection of their jobs, i would stress the benefits for citizens and consumers who are better protected and have more confidence in these products. i call on the european commission to come forward swiftly with the legislative proposal to create this system.
in writing. ‒ i believe that traditions strengthen our roots and promote development. portugal is very rich in handicrafts, embroidery and pottery. these products should benefit from a european system for the protection of geographical indications. in this way we protect the production method, tie the product to the site, preserve knowledge and jobs and give reliable information to the consumer. this legislation should promote innovation in traditional production processes and the creation of new businesses, as has been the case in portugal and, above all, in minho, as evidenced by the vila verde sweetheart scarves and the namorar portugal initiative. it should be noted that micro and small enterprises account for about 80% of typical local products. the viana embroidery, the guimarães embroidery and the vinhais mask are examples of products which could benefit from the legislation i am advocating. i therefore agree that the new rules could promote innovation in traditional production processes and the creation of new companies in the traditional products sector, and also contribute to the sustainability of jobs.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the possible extension of the protection afforded by european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products. it is essential that the quality of traditional european products be maintained and preserved. this proposal is intended to improve the fight against fraud by helping to abolish counterfeiting and, above all, to avoid unfair competition which misleads the consumer. non-agricultural products are part of our history, our identity and are also part of the cultural heritage of the member states.
‒ the european union does not currently have a single system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, unlike for agricultural and food products. i believe that this gap provides an inadequate european framework, as some member states do not have specific protection and others have established different definitions, procedures and levels of protection under national and local rules. it is important that producers, regional associations and the public authorities in madeira work together to preserve our culture and age-old traditions, such as tapestry, vimes or madeira embroidery. it is an opportunity to modernise, internationalise and safeguard these products. i fully support this document because the protection of non-agricultural products by geographical indications can highlight the eu's cultural heritage, preserve the economy of many regions of europe; support entrepreneurship at local and regional level, by promoting the maintenance of infrastructure and the creation of more skilled and local jobs; and have positive effects for consumers, producers and the whole european economic and social fabric.
‒ this report provides that non-agricultural products (crafts, ceramics, embroidery) benefit from a european system for the protection of geographical indications. as with agri-food products, this system must be visible to the consumer and must give him confidence in terms of quality, authenticity and transparency. i think it is advantageous, especially in terms of protecting micro and small enterprises (which account for about 80% of the production of these products). such legislation can also help to combat effectively counterfeiting and fraudulent use of geographical indications, practices which mislead the final consumer and are harmful to producers, most of whom still lack the legal or financial means to defend their interests.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the protection of geographical indications, the commission proposes that the european parliament and the council adopt a resolution on the protection of geographical indications in the european union. such a measure will have a very positive impact at local level by providing protection for the unique characteristics of these products and ensuring their quality (and traceability), providing consumers with reliable information on the place and method of production, promoting process innovation and the creation of new businesses in the traditional products sector. it could also boost tourism, ensuring the safeguarding and sustainability of jobs in areas where employment is scarce. a harmonised european legislation on this subject, extended to non-agricultural products, will not only help to combat counterfeiting but also strengthen the system of protection of geographical indications in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. i welcome the opportunity of this proposal, which makes a significant contribution to the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the regions and to the european cultural heritage, with the ultimate aim of providing a high level of protection for all traditional european products, whether agricultural or not, outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ the system of geographical indications (gi) as a quality designation can be an added value for products that meet the requirements to benefit from it. this added value can be translated into consumer information and preference, both inside and outside the european union, which is all the more relevant in a context of erosion of our trade borders and closer ties with other regional partners. current experience with gi for agricultural products reveals that there is widespread consumer ignorance of gi, which may counteract the intended effect. it is important to take account of this experience, where relevant, and to draw lessons from it in order to lay the foundations for a good strategy for non-agricultural products. this must be done in a cost-benefit logic, without losing sight of the intended objectives: to strengthen the territorial role of european production, which in this case can only be achieved if this system has a clear impact from the point of view of consumer recognition and preference.
the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, taking into account the traditional european quality products based on traditional know-how and techniques which are an integral part of the eu's cultural heritage and which must be preserved. protection of gi's could act as an incentive to preserve cultural heritage and traditional know-how, and could help to prevent depopulation and destruction of rural areas and to halt the exodus of young people leaving these areas, by ensuring fair remuneration for producers. good legislation can help to combat counterfeiting effectively, to promote and facilitate access to the common market and to markets outside the eu, and to stimulate economic development at regional and local level.
‒ the objective of this report is to increase the level of initial pre-financing of the programmes of greece's cohesion policy under the investment for growth and jobs goal and the programmes under the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) for the period 2014-2020 and, on the other hand, to increase to 100% the maximum co-financing rates of the operational programmes under the convergence objective and the regional competitiveness and employment objective. these measures are designed to address a serious lack of liquidity in the greek economy and to provide an immediate and desired stimulus to investment. in order to ensure that the additional initial pre-financing amount is used effectively and reaches the beneficiaries of the esf, the cohesion fund and the emff as quickly as possible, the additional pre-financing amount should be reimbursed to the commission if it is not followed by an appropriate level of payment requests within a given time-frame. for all these reasons, i support the mihaylova report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal strengthens solidarity - but the european union's budgetary solidarity has been in existence for many decades. i would remind you that the european social fund has actually been in existence since 1958. but this is a strengthening of solidarity which will relieve greece, which is in financial difficulty, a liquidity difficulty, and will therefore be able to use the funds with less financial effort on its part. this lesser financial effort, this greater solidarity, requires greater vigilance, requires additional responsibility. the 100% cofinancing amounts, the prefinancing rates correspond to about 2 billion euros, require that these amounts be used for projects that are sustainable. we want intelligent solidarity, which contributes to greece's growth, which contributes to the strengthening of greece's competitiveness, which brings more jobs, and therefore these funds, in addition to social cohesion, in addition to economic cohesion, owe greater wealth to greece. i hope that greece, the greek authorities, will seize this opportunity which they cannot afford to lose.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european structural and investment funds, which provides for specific measures for greece. it is essential that the lack of liquidity and public funds resulting from the severe financial crisis in greece does not hamper investment under those programmes, which is essential for the economic recovery of the country.
in writing. - i support this report in the face of the pressing financial situation in greece, a member state beset by liquidity problems and a lack of public funds. i agree that it is essential that this lack of liquidity and public funds in greece does not prevent investment under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). given the exceptional nature of the situation, i believe that the european union should try to intervene with specific measures, simplified procedures and effective as soon as possible, in order to contribute to the overall effort to help greece. i support the amendments to the common provisions regulation contained in this report, given their objective of making up for the lack of liquidity in the greek economy and of boosting investment in the short term by enabling the speedy launch of a greater number of projects.
‒ the austerity policies have had terrible impacts on the lives of the individuals, families, companies and countries affected by the troika. austerity has only created more misery, more poverty, more bankruptcies, more fear, more emigration, more flight from the top, more depression and suicide. this happened in greece, but also in portugal. for four years we felt the hardness of being europe's youngest son. greece was severely punished during these years. at the same time, hundreds of refugees are arriving in greece every day, and we are almost 'demanding' that the greek government deal with the matter, simply because greece should be one of the gateways to this europe which should be united. we now have the opportunity to help greece by adopting this package of specific measures through european funds. it's not about "giving more money" to greece. this is to anticipate the financing of operational programmes to promote growth and employment. we know that cohesion policies have been and are fundamental for the countries most affected by the crisis. just as there has been technical assistance from the european institutions in implementing austerity measures, so there should be now when we talk about investment.
‒ having been hit by the consequences of the financial crisis in a unique way, greece is now facing liquidity problems and a lack of public funds available for the investments needed to foster a sustainable economic recovery, and therefore lacks additional pre-financing for the operational programmes of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. this is an exceptional situation requiring exceptional measures, and therefore additional pre-financing is provided for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes financed by the european maritime and fisheries fund; the proposal also provides for a ceiling of 100% for the cumulative total of prefinancing and interim payments, increasing to 100% the co-financing rate for the 2007-13 operational programmes under the convergence, regional competitiveness and employment objectives in this country. it should be noted that this solution, which i voted for, requires a serious commitment effort from greece, which involves accelerating the pace of its payment requests for the programmes concerned before the end of 2016, or else repay the additional initial pre-financing.
‒ the measures concern the release of the funds under the 2007-2013 framework, amounting to 800 million, financed at 100%, allowing the closure of the projects that were applied for under this framework. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary is compatible with the internal market. it is understood that this aid is positive and may alleviate the suffering of many people. however, this is only a palliative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the greek economy is restored to a sound basis and in accordance with the will of the greek people. the situation in greece confirms our second analysis, namely that it is urgent to open a comprehensive process of renegotiation of sovereign debts at european union level and to hold an intergovernmental conference to review the treaties, in particular the budgetary treaty, and to remove the monetary buffer that blocks any possibility of alternative and sovereign development. this position and the coherence it requires, which justified a vote in favour of the above amendments, must not interfere with the sense of solidarity which the greek people deserve from us, and it is not our intention to block the allocation of eu funds.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 6 958 623 for germany to support the 2 881 workers made redundant at adam opel ag and a supplier company.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the fund) aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and the fund's intervention should not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. germany submitted a request following redundancies at adam opel ag and a supplier company in germany. i therefore agree that a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 should be mobilised to meet the request made by germany.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, application egf/2015/002 de/adam opel. according to the commission, the measures described constitute active labour market measures falling within the eligible actions defined in article 7 of the egf regulation. these actions do not replace passive social protection measures. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this is an application that meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the present case, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in adam opel ag, nace revision 2, division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) and in a supplier company. the source of the redundancies is the total closure of the adam opel ag production plant in bochum, due to the 25% decrease between 2007 and 2013 in the number of new cars registered in the eu and efta member states. i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies. i therefore support the adoption of this report.
‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns (globalisation) or the global economic and financial crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. germany submitted this application on the basis of the sharp decline in sales of cars by adam opel ag. 2826 workers were made redundant (plus 55 workers made redundant in suppliers and producers of adam opel ag). eur 6 958 623 was mobilised for assistance. germany submitted this application on the basis of a criterion of the european globalisation adjustment fund which defines at least 500 workers made redundant in an enterprise in a member state in a reference period of 4 months. without calling into question the general principle, it seems, however, to be a criterion tailored to large companies.
‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis, assisting them in their reintegration into the labour market. in this context, germany submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf to cover the 2881 redundancies in adam opel ag. i am convinced that it meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, and i voted in favour of mobilising the egf to the amount of eur 6958623 to provide workers with rapid support for their reintegration into the labour market, with the guarantee that they will receive appropriate training and new and recognised qualifications and skills.
‒ this mobilisation of the egf is intended to minimise the impact of the redundancies at adam opel. the redundancies of 2 881 workers in adam opel ag and a supplier company justify the mobilisation of eur 6 958 623 in response to the application submitted by germany. these redundancies have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy of bochum, a highly industrialised area traditionally specialised in coal mining and steel production, which has been facing very serious structural challenges since the 1960s. the unemployment rate in the ruhr region has already reached levels well above the national average, currently standing at around 11%. the fund provides for measures to support workers which will do little to solve the social problem it is facing. on the contrary, investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights are more necessary.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 6 268 564 for belgium to support the 5 111 workers made redundant at ford genk and 11 suppliers or downstream producers.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the fund) aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and the fund's intervention should not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. belgium submitted an application following redundancies or cessations of activity in ford genk and 11 suppliers or downstream producers. i therefore agree that a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 should be mobilised to meet the request made by belgium.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, application egf/2015/003 be/ford. according to the commission, the measures described constitute active labour market measures falling within the eligible actions defined in article 7 of the egf regulation. these actions do not replace passive social protection measures. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this is an application that meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the present case, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at ford genk (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) and 11 downstream suppliers or producers. the source of the redundancies is the total closure of the plant, as the european automobile industry has lost a significant market share. i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies. i therefore support the adoption of this report.
‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns (globalisation) or the global economic and financial crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. belgium submitted this application on the basis of the sharp decline in ford genk's car sales. 3701 workers were made redundant (plus 1180 workers made redundant at ford genk suppliers and manufacturers). eur 6 268 564 was mobilised for assistance. belgium submitted this application on the basis of a european globalisation adjustment fund criterion which defines at least 500 workers made redundant in a member state company in a reference period of 4 months. without calling into question the general principle, it seems, however, to be a criterion tailored to large companies.
‒ in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement effectively the instruments to support workers who are thus affected and thus to enable them to reintegrate into the labour market. with this in mind, i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help belgium with eur 6 268 564 following 5111 redundancies at ford genk, a manufacturer of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. this financial contribution from the egf will help to mitigate the effects of globalisation, which has had a drastic effect on the reduction of passenger car production, by co-financing active labour market measures leading to sustainable and long-term employment, as well as the allocation of subsidies for self-employment, recruitment incentives and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
‒ belgium's application for this fund concerns 5 111 workers made redundant at ford genk and 11 suppliers or downstream producers. the main company is active in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. the commission has decided to mobilise eur 6 268 564 from the globalisation adjustment fund to provide individual assistance in job search, individual case management and general information services, training and retraining, subsidies and incentives, which is justified by the loss of significant market share by the automotive industry over the last decade. the closure of this plant means an increase in the unemployment rate which may reach 29,4% of the unemployment rate in the region, and a potential fall in labour productivity of 10,9%, due to the high importance of the automotive industry for the labour productivity in the region. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid to support the main victims of the consequences of political decisions, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of measures to halt the course of these neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 414 848 for italy to support the 1 249 workers made redundant in the alitalia group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (the fund) aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and the fund's intervention should not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. the italian authorities submitted an application following redundancies in the alitalia group. i therefore agree that a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 should be mobilised to respond to the italian request.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, application egf/2015/004 it/alitalia. according to the commission, the measures described constitute active labour market measures falling within the eligible actions defined in article 7 of the egf regulation. these actions do not replace passive social protection measures. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this is an application that meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the present case, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the alitalia group in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 51 (air transport). the dismissals are due to the fall in the number of passengers carried in 2014 to the figures recorded in 2010, corresponding to a decrease of 3,6% compared to 2013 and 6,4% compared to 2012, combined with the accumulated losses since the total privatisation of alitalia in 2009. since the application of the italian authorities meets the requirements for determining a financial contribution from the egf, for active employment measures to reintegrate dismissed workers into the labour market and as a mechanism to avoid the harmful consequences of a significant impact on the local economy, i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns (globalisation) or the global economic and financial crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. italy submitted this application on the basis of the sharp decline in its profits from alitalia. 1247 workers were laid off in this group. eur 1 414 848 was mobilised for assistance. italy submitted this application on the basis of a european globalisation adjustment fund criterion which defines at least 500 workers made redundant in an enterprise in a member state in a reference period of 4 months. without calling into question the general principle, it seems, however, to be a criterion tailored to large companies.
‒ the structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation are now an inescapable reality. and no country or company is immune to the effects of these transformations. this was also the case for the italian economy, which was the reason for the italian authorities' application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the 1249 redundancies in the alitalia group, which operates in the air transport sector. this situation is linked to the structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation, which has led to severe economic disruptions in the international aviation market and a sharp decline in the union's market share in this sector. for this reason and in accordance with article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013, i support the proposal to mobilise the egf for the amount of eur 1 414 848 and i support the italian authorities' position to focus on active job search and training, including the reintegration scheme for workers over 50 who have been made redundant. i regret only, as does the rapporteur, the small number of beneficiaries eligible for the measures in this application (184), which represents only 14.7% of the total number of redundancies verified.
‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1.4 million from the egf for italy to compensate for the loss of 184 jobs following the dismissal of 1249 workers at alitalia. this amount will be used for training, support for active job-search and reimbursement of mobility costs to attend training and recruitment incentives for those over 50. these 184 workers are in a more difficult situation in finding work, since they are in a region of italy, lazio, which is characterised by the high importance of services and a low level of industrialisation, and the effects of the economic and financial crisis have affected employment in the lazio region, although to a lesser extent than employment at national level. by supporting employers in the decision to dismiss, by giving way to justifications which relieve them of responsibility and have nothing to do with the ability of workers to perform their duties, these funds 'legitimize' their policy of dismissals rather than serving to support access to employment with rights.
‒ local authorities, as key state and institutional actors in local governance, grassroots democracy and sustainable territorial development, have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 objectives. it should be remembered that it is the local authorities which, by virtue of their closer proximity to the population, reflect the needs of the population more accurately and are able to respond more efficiently and quickly to situations of need. this has been demonstrated by the achievements of the millennium development goals, in particular in the fight against poverty and the provision of community services such as water supply, sanitation, primary health care and education. i support the theocharous report in particular for highlighting the central role of local authorities in development cooperation policy, encouraging the conclusion of partnership agreements between local authorities in the member states and developing countries in areas such as training and human capacity building, recognising the need for the participation of indigenous peoples in the definition of local and regional development and investment plans and the creation of new decentralised means of financing adapted to the characteristics of these entities.
‒ the latest studies predict that the world population will grow from about seven billion to 9.3 billion people in 2050, with a greater impact in developing countries, especially in urban areas. some 2.5 billion new urban dwellers will need access to education, health services, employment, food, sanitation, transport, housing and electricity, posing key challenges for local and regional authorities. however, in my view local authorities, as key state and institutional actors in local government, will have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 objectives. i agree that it is more effective to act at local level to improve the living conditions of people, particularly in rural areas, and that the new global sustainable development framework offers an opportunity to ensure broad participation of civil society organisations (csos), local authorities and national parliaments.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the role of local authorities in developing countries in the framework of development cooperation. local authorities play a crucial role in the definition, organisation and achievement of development objectives. local authorities will have a key role to play in the post-2015 development agenda.
‒ local authorities have been playing a key role over the past few years and are expected to achieve the status of essential partner in pursuing the objectives of the post-2015 development agenda. i agree that local authorities, because of their proximity to the population, are in the front line in dealing with the growing number of crisis situations, but that they often lack the capacity and means to respond effectively. it is important to stress that local authorities are fundamental in the fight against hunger, poverty, the provision of community services such as water and sanitation, primary health care and education, the promotion of dialogue among local cultures, indigenous peoples, migrants and minorities, and, above all, the improvement of people's living conditions. this report deserves my vote in favour because of what has been identified above and mainly because of the role of local authorities in protecting the most vulnerable populations.
in writing. ‒ local authorities (la) are key players in sustainable territorial development. they are an important interface between the communities' objectives and the national and global objectives under the post-2015 development agenda. they also play a key role in protecting the most vulnerable sections of the population. the eu therefore needs to ensure a more equitable transfer of financial resources from the national to the sub-regional level, to cities and municipalities (without neglecting accountability). this report is precisely aimed at recognizing these coordination structures for technical and methodological assistance to local capacity building and for the exchange of knowledge to support decentralization processes and the provision of basic services.
‒ local authorities have a key role to play in protecting the most vulnerable people in the most crisis-affected states and middle-income countries. local authorities are central to the fight against poverty and the provision of community services. strengthening local authorities and civil society organisations is therefore essential to ensure a more equitable transfer of financial resources from the national to the sub-regional and local level. it therefore makes sense to encourage the national states to transfer part of the budget to the level of regional and local governments. however, it should be noted that this issue cannot be ignored by the austerity issues which have greatly penalized transfers from the central state to local authorities as was the case in portugal and in most of the countries involved. we are therefore afraid that this report is just another manifestation of pious intentions without any practical effect.
mr president, a group of managers of the world's largest car company, the volkswagen group, have decided to destroy the most important premise in any area of business: trust. over eleven million vehicles have been intentionally tampered with worldwide, with software designed to falsify emissions tests. volkswagen has perpetrated a fraud with catastrophic consequences for the automotive industry globally. millions of customers looking for more environmentally friendly cars were fooled. states that have given tax incentives for the purchase of less polluting cars have been cheated. and tens of thousands of volkswagen group workers may now find their jobs in jeopardy. leaving the control of the sector to one sector is a risk. today we are faced once again with the result. we may be facing a new pandora's box in the automobile sector and serious questions of credibility in other european industrial sectors. we need to hold accountable for the environmental and public health crimes that have been committed. the interests of european consumers must be safeguarded and restored, and confidence in the markets must be restored. it is important to ask the european commission what measures it will take to restore the truth to emissions tests and, above all, what it will do to better monitor the implementation of european legislation. (the speaker accepts to answer a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer "blue card". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's not even possible. it's unthinkable that we've gotten this far. the european union must be united on this issue. and this is how i think i'm gonna handle this.
mr president, the falsification of emissions tests carried out by volkswagen is an aggression of great impact that goes far beyond the environmental component. a 21st century disease where excessive faith in technology and corporate denial of global warming, often driven by the easy pursuit of profit, causes corporate environmental responsibility to be reduced, often to advertising and image actions. this is a serious warning and requires a close look at the big corporations where easy, immediate economic interests are worth omission, disguise and even lying. in addition, this behaviour has the potential to spread to other sectors and may contribute to consumer distrust of efforts by regulators and brands to reduce their environmental footprint. this is behaviour which may undermine the confidence of the world's citizens in the european automobile industry as a whole. we need to think very carefully about how this fraud was detected in the united states of america and not in europe. what happened? what happened?
mr president, i want to say something about the chaos and the humanitarian disaster in libya, which we helped develop through the lack of convergent and coordinated european action after the fall of gaddafi and through the stupid failure to assist the transitional authorities on security sector reform (ssr) and disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration (ddr), thus enabling the militias to turn into the terrorist and criminal gangs of today. do not fool yourself, commissioner. the seventh version of the un-brokered national accord is not likely to be signed any time soon, according to what we hear in tripoli and tobruk today. a major military operation following the disastrous model of yemen seems to be under preparation by general haftar, the aspiring new gaddafi, counting on salafist fighters. tragic consequences will befall the libyan people, foreign migrants, foreigners trying to flee and, inevitably, europe. the european failure to act is the result of lack of union and indeed rivalry among our member states over oil and other interests. that is leaving some european capitals more exposed to libya, and they are now contemplating military intervention, which will require thousands of boots on the ground, not to mention a legal justification. another mistake made by the eu, the us and the un is to pretend that all this is internal factionalism and not to denounce and deter the powers that are fighting a proxy war in libya, namely saudi arabia, the united arab emirates and egypt, backing the government in tobruk, and turkey and qatar backing the muslim brotherhood in the tripoli—misrata axis. by not stopping this proxy war, we are enabling an expansion of the terrorist daesh and the salafists in libya. this is not just against the people – this is against the people of europe.
mr president, i too fully agree with what our chairman of the subcommittee on human rights, elena valenciano, said. with this resolution, we reaffirm our commitment to combating the death penalty globally, in a world where iran, saudi arabia and china top the list of the worst offenders. we are also concerned about the application of the death penalty for terrorism and drug trafficking in countries where there are no adequate procedural guarantees and where the police and judicial prosecution of suspects may hide political motives, as in china against the uighurs, in pakistan where the moratorium has been shamefully lifted, or in equatorial guinea, despite being linked to the community of portuguese language countries, to the shame of that community. we also draw attention to the complicity of certain member states in the execution of death sentences in third countries, through financial support for the fight against drug trafficking, which is unacceptable. we therefore want the european union to work together to ensure that funds for the fight against drug trafficking in certain countries are only made available if the country abolishes the death penalty - not only as a matter of principle, but also because these policies disproportionately affect the most vulnerable in the trafficking chains. the european union must also be firm and vigilant in prohibiting the export of drugs which could be used for capital punishment, and keep up the pressure on its pharmaceutical industry in relation to new drugs and practices used in third countries such as the united states of america.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on behalf of my group and remind you that the initiative to update this regulation was taken by my political group, the alde, in 2011 through former mep diana wallace. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european small claims procedure is intended to simplify and speed up small claims procedures in cross-border cases and to reduce the related procedural costs, with the specific aim of helping consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to bring their actions and thus ensuring access to justice in a quicker and easier way. this objective cannot be lost in the tangle of brussels bureaucracy which often leaves citizens and small businesses lost in the complexity of the procedure. i would also remind you that this work to simplify and bring citizens and businesses closer to justice is part of a wider work linked to the alde initiative to legislate better. the european small claims procedure can only succeed if it is brought to the attention of consumers, businesses, courts and advisory associations. the data cited by the commission show that 86% of citizens and almost half of the courts have never heard of this procedure. the costs must also be taken into account, and they must be reduced and the speed of decisionmaking increased, especially in the courts.
madam president, commissioner, the report under consideration has acquired particular importance with the approach of the climate summit and also with the debate on the problem of emissions in general, which has been raised by the recent crisis associated with motor vehicle emissions. we must continue to be firmly at the forefront of the approach to controlling emissions at source, which on the one hand benefits air quality and on the other hand poses technological challenges that europe must seize to strengthen its position in the green and sustainable economy. ensuring environmental quality and sustainability cannot be seen as a problem. it's an opportunity for social leadership and technological leadership. the air quality strategy should also be strongly linked to the energy union. they're mutually reinforcing. we are facing a moment of great attention from the world public opinion and we have to be credible. credible to ourselves and credible to the world. i would also like to stress the features of this directive in terms of simplification of the registration and monitoring process and the possibilities for phasing it out.
madam president, this legislation is welcome and it illustrates positively the effort to identify and develop synergies between sea and air quality, the impact of pollutants on human life, the environment and the need to mitigate global climate change. the proposals we are voting on will require the adaptation of existing technology to the emission limits proposed by the commission and using relative targets. the exception granted to the outermost regions in this respect is also fundamental. the impact of insularity is thus recognised in terms of the logistical and technical aspects of energy response in these regions, which are characterised by a dispersed and relatively small population. the azores, my home region, is an example of a largely positive balance in terms of environmental preservation, thanks to a continuing commitment to the protection of its natural, landscape and cultural heritage. this is a path we will continue to follow with realism.
madam president, one of the most important aspects of the text we are discussing is the provision of the best possible information to the consumer. it is essential to have a system which allows the clear identification of potentially allergenic substances, which means the obligation to label them. as regards the milk and milk products market, taking advantage of the presence of commissioner hogan in the context of the recently presented study on origin labelling, it seems to me that the only defensible position is that origin labelling should refer to the place where milk is collected and not to the place where it is processed. i know the context is far more complex and includes other variables, but i don't have time for more here. this is the only position which seems to me to be morally defensible, because it is the only one which really defends primary products and territorial balance. it is probably also this aspect which requires more immediate decisionmaking at european level.
mr president, there is a saying in my country that says 'look at what i say, don't look at what i do'. so i take this opportunity to ask, for the umpteenth time, the question i have already asked in this house, and it is very simple: is there or will there ever be concerted action by the european institutions and european governments to not only condemn but to put a moratorium on the sale of arms to the conflict areas? will there be a moratorium on the purchase of oil from the territories occupied by the islamic state? - yes or no? it's very simple. we have responsibilities, we're great at talking about others, teaching lessons in morality and how it should be done, let's look at our responsibilities. mr. schmit, if you can answer this question once, please do so. what are we going to do about the arms embargo and the oil purchase?
mr president, russia's intervention in support of assad, which is the source of the conflict and will never be part of the solution, is betrayed by, under the pretext of attacking terrorists, bombing patriots and the syrian population. but it is also a reflection of the european union's failure to commit to ending the war, involving syrian minorities and regional powers, and to combating the terrorism of the islamic state. in iraqi kurdistan, where i returned last month, the member states are not coordinating either to coordinate humanitarian and development aid, ensuring schools in the refugee camps, or to train, equip and diplomatically support the peshmerga, which are the only troops on the ground containing daesh in iraq, despite the fact that the baghdad government continues to pay salaries in mosul to pay taxes to daesh, and in syria, where the kurds are treacherously bombed by erdogan's turkey. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. they 're fueling the causes of the exodus of ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, in the present circumstances in the middle east, we must welcome and encourage the agreement of mutual trust with turkey put in place by the european commission and the intention expressed by the european commission to strengthen cooperation with that country on the refugee crisis. once again, the european commission is doing the right thing on this very important issue by showing its support for better control of refugee flows and a more dignified reception of refugees, and for some of these refugees to be resettled in the countries of the european union. turkey is and should be a strategic ally of the european union. but this should not make us lose sight of the issue of human rights and the way they are treated or abused inside turkey. i would also like to draw attention here to the way in which the current turkish authorities have been dealing with the kurdish question. in recent months we have seen a disturbing upsurge in fighting between turkish security forces and kurdish nationalist militants and we cannot ignore, we have even to appreciate the importance that the kurds have given to the fight against the islamic state.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i consider the 2017 timetable presented to be adequate to the legislative requirements.
in writing. ‒ we have nothing to say about the timetable, since it is a matter of the treaties and the need to follow up all the formal procedures associated with it.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of human rights, the european union is proposing to extend the scope of the convention to include the rights of minorities, including the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. the horizontal framework established by the protocol constitutes a mechanism of economic, financial and technical cooperation allowing access to assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be provided by the union under union programmes. following the arab spring and in view of the consensual adoption of a new constitution in january 2014, relations with the eu are expected to develop positively and this agreement is vital to contribute to the country's transition to democracy by intensifying cooperation. tunisia is hereby authorised to participate in all current and future union programmes open to the participation of tunisia, in accordance with the applicable provisions on the adoption of those programmes.
‒ the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the republic of tunisia is proposed. the justification for this recommendation presents tunisia as the cradle of the arab spring and the only mena country to survive this "social and political experiment". it is proposed to orient the tunisia-eu relationship towards facilitating the establishment of concrete economic commitments and investments, which will strengthen the trade relationship and allow for 'improvements' in the tunisian economy. it is proposed that tunisia should be granted access to some eu programmes. it is suggested that cooperation in higher education, education and training should be strengthened. the aim is to bring tunisia into line with eu policies, including integration into the common security and defence policy. the protocol is an instrument of economic, financial and technical cooperation, which allows access to financial assistance, integrated into the european neighbourhood policy, opening the door to eu programmes promoting reform, modernisation and the transition to the eu neighbourhood. while agreeing to establish cooperation relations with tunisia in various fields with a view to cooperation for development and mutual benefit, the alignment of this protocol with the eu's security and neighbourhood policies, which we disagree with, justifies our not voting in favour.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol establishing a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia on its participation in union programmes. turkey's economic and social development is key to its transition to an effective and full democracy and the european union has an important role to play as a partner in this context.
‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the success of tunisia's transition to democracy will depend on its future economic and social development. i believe that tunisia has enormous potential for long-term growth. with the implementation of the planned reforms, coupled with existing assets such as its human resources and open economy, it will strengthen and empower its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way. i think it is important that the european union should make the tunisian issue a priority, making concrete economic and investment commitments to support the country's fragile transition to democracy, while keeping in mind that the success of the tunisian experience is in the interest of the whole region and the eu. i also agree with the rapporteur that the eu should also step up cooperation in the fields of higher education, education, training and youth, through programmes such as erasmus+ and other programmes aimed at developing contacts between people.
‒ in july 2007, the council set out guidelines for negotiations with a view to concluding a number of association agreements between countries in the european union's (eu) neighbourhood. the state of these negotiations is of particular importance in the current context of the political and humanitarian crisis which, in the south and south-east, in north africa and in the middle east, is fracturing the social and economic fabric of the peoples, with serious repercussions throughout the neighbourhood. the aim of the association programme under consideration is to promote the reform, modernization and transition of the neighbourhood countries by means of economic policies establishing preferential arrangements with concessions for tunisian agricultural exports on the one hand and unhindered access for community industrial exports to tunisia on the other. today, the success of tunisia's political regime change also depends on its socioeconomic development, which is vital for the region and for the eu. in this regard, the protocol provides, in addition to the establishment of the free trade area, for financial assistance measures, which are established by the protocol under examination in order to contribute fully to the achievement of the objectives of the agreement, in line with the priorities of the european neighbourhood policy.
‒ it is vital that the european union makes concrete economic and investment commitments to support the fragile transition to democracy in this country. the success of the tunisian experience is in the interest of the whole region and the eu. in addition to the economic sector, the eu should also step up cooperation in the fields of higher education, education, training and youth, through programmes such as erasmus+, and also give tunisia the opportunity to integrate the missions and activities of the common european security and defence policy. the enhancement of this participation will help tunisia to consolidate its institutions and reform processes and to bring its legislation, standards and norms closer to european practices.
‒ one of the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy is to promote the gradual opening-up of certain eu programmes to neighbouring european countries. tunisia, as a country whose economy has been deteriorating sharply, particularly in terms of its trade with europe, and having already expressed its interest in participating in the wide range of programmes open to non-evs countries, should be a priority for the eu in undertaking concrete economic and investment commitments to support its fragile transition to democracy. the protocol to be concluded lays down principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation, allowing tunisia to receive technical assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the eu in accordance with european programmes. in this context, i support the conclusion of this agreement, i support the idea of this agreement, which intensifies cooperation in the fields of higher education, education, training and youth with this country, through programmes such as erasmus + and other programmes aimed at developing contacts between the peoples. tunisia should also be given the opportunity to integrate the missions and activities of the common european security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. the justification for the resolution presents tunisia as the cradle of the arab spring and the only mena country to survive this "social and political experiment". it encourages the establishment of concrete economic and investment commitments with tunisia that strengthen the trade relationship and allow for 'improvements' in the tunisian economy. it also provides for access for tunisia to certain eu programmes. it suggests strengthening cooperation in higher education, education and training through programmes such as erasmus and other programmes for contact with the population (no doubt democracy). the aim is to bring tunisia into line with eu policies, including the integration of the cfsp. the protocol is an instrument of economic, financial and technical cooperation, which allows access to financial assistance, integrated into the european neighbourhood policy, opening the door to eu programmes promoting reform, modernisation and the transition to the eu neighbourhood. we have legitimate doubts whether this eu model, with its results visible in particular in southern europe, can be of benefit to the tunisian people.
‒ we are now looking at the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the republic of tunisia. the justification for the resolution presents tunisia as the cradle of the arab spring and the only mena country to survive this "social and political experiment". it directs the relationship to facilitate the establishment of concrete economic and investment commitments with tunisia that strengthen the trade relationship and allow for 'improvements' in the tunisian economy. it also provides for access for tunisia to certain eu programmes. it suggests strengthening cooperation in higher education, education, training, via programmes such as erasmus, and other programmes for contact with the populations. the eu is also seeking to bring tunisia into line with eu policies, in particular the common security and defence policy. although there are positive aspects to this agreement, we cannot agree with many of the political and economic principles which the eu wants to impose and which are underlying it and conditioning the future of this country.
‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 establishes a european small claims procedure with the aim of simplifying and speeding up small claims in cross-border cases and reducing the costs involved. the experience gained during its existence shows that, although the european small claims procedure has proved to be a useful instrument, recourse to the courts remains low. i support the increase in the limit for using the european small claims procedure from eur 2 000 to eur 10 000, which will be a considerable improvement for smes. the organisation of videoconferencing hearings will help to reduce costs and increase the use of such actions, as it will not be necessary to travel to the court. the obligation for member states to set up means of distance payment will allow applicants to save between eur 400 and eur 800 in payment costs when travelling. with these proposals we are helping to improve the functioning of the european small claims procedure.
in writing. ‒ this report amends regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 1896/2006 establishing a european small claims procedure and a european order for payment procedure, applicable to disputed and uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters the value of which does not exceed eur 2 000. these regulations ensured that decisions given in the context of such proceedings were enforceable without intermediate proceedings, in particular without the need for a declaration of enforceability in the member state of enforcement (abolition of the exequatur). the general objective was to improve access to justice by reducing costs and speeding up civil proceedings in respect of claims falling within its scope, both for consumers and for businesses. it has been recognised that the european small claims procedure has facilitated the settlement of cross-border cases concerning such actions in the eu. however, obstacles to the full application of this procedure for the benefit of consumers and businesses, in particular smes, are identified, which relate to the low threshold provided for in the current regulation which deprives many potential claimants of the use of a simplified procedure in cross-border disputes. the amendments proposed here deal with this aspect of course. in general, the report deserves our agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure. after five years of application, the european small claims procedure has proved to be an extremely useful instrument, simplifying and speeding up small claims in cross-border cases and reducing the related costs. however, there was still room to strengthen the application of that regulation in order to encourage its application and use.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of 11 july 2007 establishes the european small claims procedure with the aim of simplifying such actions in cross-border cases, thus reducing the costs of litigation. access to justice is the main objective, making it a useful procedure to facilitate such access for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the limit for small claims should be revised and court costs should be proportionate to the value of the cases, with the aim of increasing the use of this procedure in some member states where small claims are significantly low in value. flexible dispute resolution conditions should be provided for, through distance communication methods, the abolition of language barriers and the transparency of procedures. i am in favour of this proposal, which meets the need for swift and simplified justice, providing consumers and businesses with fair and immediate solutions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the european small claims procedure and a new european order for payment procedure. this regulation will bring about uniform law throughout the community in the settlement of crossborder disputes and also disputes involving another crossborder element, so that union citizens can benefit from more simplified and less costly access to justice. with regard to the full development of the single market in the european union, it is also essential that consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises also benefit from a secure, transparent and useful legal system, and can thus bring actions without fear of legal costs disproportionate to the amount of the action, or proceedings whose length of time undermines confidence in justice and, consequently, in the single market. in order to remedy the shortcomings in the application of the regulation, five years after its entry into force, amendments are proposed to extend the scope of the procedure, limit legal costs, make payment methods more flexible and modernise the communication channels. i voted in favour.
‒ the adoption of this report has a significant practical effect for european citizens. claiming back the money spent on a defective product is not always easy, involving bureaucracy, large expenses and even trips to the country of origin, if this involves a court decision. oftentimes, the injured consumer gives up because the work and expense involved in the complaint is not justified. the aim of this decision is to simplify and speed up small claims in crossborder cases and to reduce the costs of small claims (by making them proportionate to the amounts claimed). the main objective is to help consumers and smes bring their cases and thus ensure access to justice. the use of small claims courts remains low and efforts need to be stepped up in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and transparency of proceedings.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to amend regulations (ec) no 861/2007 and (ec) no 1896/2006, as it has been found that the application of these instruments, five years after their entry into force, has proved to be very useful, although it is possible and desirable to extend and strengthen their scope, since the use of small claims courts in european terms remains significantly low and efforts need to be intensified in relation to legal certainty, language barriers and the transparency of proceedings. in this respect, i support this proposal to raise the limit for small claims from € 2000 to € 10 000, and to extend the definition of what constitutes a crossborder case to include other elements than domicile in the member state, such as the place where the contract is executed or the place where the harmful event occurred. on the procedural side, the idea of equalising the means of service, the use of videoconferencing for hearings, the setting of a ceiling on legal costs and the reduction of the length of proceedings are also positive. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report amends regulations (ec) no 861/2007 and (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council and establishes a european small claims procedure. it establishes a european order for payment procedure applicable to disputed and uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters the value of which does not exceed eur 2 000. those regulations also ensured that decisions given in the context of that procedure were enforceable without intermediate proceedings, in particular without a declaration of enforceability being required in the member state of enforcement. the general objective of these regulations was to improve access to justice, reduce costs and speed up civil proceedings in respect of claims falling within their scope, both for consumers and for businesses. we have, however, reservations about the possibility of dealing with matters of labour law, since in portugal we have the labour courts which judge these matters.
‒ the purpose of this report is to amend regulations (ec) no 861/2007 and (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european small claims procedure and a european order for payment procedure, applicable to contested and uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters the value of which does not exceed eur 2 000. these regulations had the express objective of improving access to justice, reducing costs and speeding up civil proceedings in respect of claims falling within their scope, both for consumers and for businesses. the amendments now introduced, among other things, raise the maximum amount concerned to eur 5000, extending the scope to the concept of matrimonial property regimes and maintenance obligations. we believe that these measures can facilitate the feasibility of this type of crossborder judicial proceedings, improving access to and speed of justice.
‒ medium combustion plants are a major source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (fine dust) and are used for a wide range of purposes, such as electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling, and the production of heat and/or steam for industrial processes. emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants (unlike small and large plants) are not normally regulated at eu level. this proposal is designed to fill this gap. in the eu there are about 150 000 medium combustion plants, i.e. plants with a thermal output of between 1 and 50 mw. the proposal sets emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. the commission's original proposal has been amended several times and we are generally in agreement with it. we supported the proposed exceptions for the archipelagos of madeira and the azores, which we consider to be fully justified, taking into account their nature and specific situation, and there should be another framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, particularly as regards the azores and madeira, because i believe that the poorest regions cannot be subject to higher levels of pollution simply because they do not have the means. i understand, of course, the argument of the lack of resources, but i think that the derogation from the limits is a contradiction in terms of its results and would in fact imply a double penalty for these regions, which remain poorer and would be more polluted by this derogation. the solution to this equation is necessarily the eu's response to help and equip the regions with the means to meet the limits.
‒ the report on the proposal for a directive is presented as an important instrument for improving air quality, and i therefore voted in favour of limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere, which is the central issue under discussion. the aim is to establish a more coherent and ambitious regulatory framework within the union, closing important gaps that have been identified so far, without imposing unjustified burdens.
‒ the control of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants is not regulated at eu level. as such, there is an urgent need to close this gap, as we are faced with an issue in the field of the protection of human health and the environment. the aim is to set minimum requirements for new and existing plants by setting emission limit values for pollutants, introducing aggregation rules for new combustion plants and obliging member states to apply limit values in areas outside eu air quality standards. this proposal is in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and also with the new air quality framework for action set out in the eu thematic strategy on air pollution. the environment and the citizens of the eu need to be protected by measures that contribute to that end, and therefore i vote in favour of this proposal for a directive.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. it should be noted that, as a general rule, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants are not regulated at eu level and only this proposal will make it possible to set limit values for existing and future plants in line with the community's emission reduction obligations. i voted in favour of the proposed amendments because i consider that the compromise solution between the burden on society and the economy and the quality of air is fair, as defined in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ we all agree on the harmful effects of air pollution on public health and the environment. if we want effective results we have to go to the source of pollution. this directive lays down provisions for medium combustion plants (150 000 in the eu), setting limit values for new and existing plants, together with a simple registration system, to ensure compliance by member states with the reduction of polluting emissions. an eu climate policy will only be credible at global level if it is combined with a competitive industrial strategy but with a strong emphasis on sustainability and innovation. as is clear, i voted in favour of this report, with the exception of two points in an amendment (87) tabled by the envi committee which provides for the exception to the directive for the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french islands. the argument put forward for the exception is based exclusively on the increase in financial burdens and the logistical difficulties inherent in an island which, if true, cannot prevail over the quality of life of the population. air quality must be guaranteed in all european regions, whether or not they are the outermost regions. there are no first-class citizens and no second-class citizens.
‒ the fight against the atmospheric emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants is at the heart of this proposal for a directive. in fact, there is a gap in this area, arising from the absence of any specific regulation at european level applying to emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, which needs to be filled not only to bring about greater legislative coherence but also to reduce the harmful impacts on the environment and, not least, to combat the harmful effects these emissions have on human health. another important aspect that will be addressed by regulation in this area is the significant contribution that the reduction of emissions from medium combustion plants will make to the achievement of the eu's climate and energy objectives by reducing greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy. the adoption of these measures will send a clear signal in favour of new investment, creating more incentives for research and innovation in cutting-edge technologies, and allowing european companies to take a leading position in green innovation. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour.
‒ this legislation is welcome and positively illustrates the effort to identify and develop synergies between air quality, the impact of pollutants on human life and the environment and the need to mitigate global climate change. the proposals adopted require existing technology to meet the emission limits proposed by the commission and to use realistic targets. the exception granted to the outermost regions in this respect is fundamental. this acknowledges the impact of insularity on the logistical and technical aspects of the energy response in these regions, which are characterised by a dispersed and relatively small population. the azores, my home region, is an example of a largely positive balance in terms of environmental preservation thanks to a continuing commitment to the protection of its natural, landscape and cultural heritage. this is a path we will continue to follow with realism.
‒ the proposal for a directive sets emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from medium combustion plants. on 23 june 2015, the european parliament and the council reached a provisional agreement on the proposal. about 75% of medium combustion plants are run by smes. care must be taken not to impose an excessive administrative burden. on the other hand, it is important to look at the context in which they operate, either because of the climate or because of their geographical location, with particular emphasis on the island territories of the eu countries.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. in this respect, action at eu level is imperative in order to establish a more coherent and ambitious regulatory framework to combat pollutant emissions into the atmosphere. although these have been significantly reduced over the past decades, air pollution levels are still problematic in many parts of europe and union citizens continue to be exposed to pollutants that potentially compromise their health and well-being. this report thus represents an important instrument for improving air quality in the european union and an excellent opportunity to improve the regulation of emissions of certain pollutants without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy.
‒ medium combustion plants are a major source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (fine dust) and are used for a wide range of purposes, such as electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling, and the production of heat and/or steam for industrial processes. emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants (unlike small and large plants) are not normally regulated at eu level. this proposal is designed to fill this gap. the proposal sets emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. we supported the proposed exceptions for the archipelagos of madeira and the azores, which we consider to be fully justified, taking into account their nature and specific situation, and there should be another framework.
‒ it is proposed to approximate the laws of the member states concerning certain caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, taking into account other legislation adopted in the meantime, in particular in the food sector, and harmonising the compositional requirements for food caseins with the relevant international standard (codex alimentarius). the products covered by the proposal are not intended for sale to the final consumer but are used for the preparation of foodstuffs and are therefore traded between companies in the sector. it is important that food business operators have the information necessary for the labelling of final products, in particular when allergens are involved. for this reason, the proposal provides for provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. if the mandatory information provided for therein is not provided on the packaging, containers or labels, those products may not be placed on the market as food caseins and caseinates or used for the preparation of foodstuffs. the alignment of the requirements on the composition of food casein with codex alimentarius will ensure a level playing field for food business operators. the rapporteur temporarily limits the commission's power to adopt delegated acts and suggests some technical amendments to ensure consistency with codex alimentarius. we voted in favour.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. the aim is to ensure that the information which is exchanged between companies for the preparation of foodstuffs is appropriate for the labelling of the final products, particularly as regards allergens.
‒ in the context of certain lactoproteins (caseins and caseinates), the aim is to approximate the laws of the member states with a view to consolidating european legislation in the food sector by repealing directive 83/417/eec. the aim is to separate the powers of the commission and to harmonise the compositional requirements for food caseins with international standards, in particular the codex alimentarius standard. the repeal of directive 83/417/eec is necessary to the extent that the current legislation concerns foodstuffs. in addition, with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, there is a need to establish a distinction between the powers of the commission to adopt non-legislative acts and to adopt implementing acts. the proposal establishes the compositional and quality requirements for casein products referred to in the codex alimentarius standard. i am in favour of the adoption of this new directive, thus creating a level playing field for food business operators and consumers alike.
‒ this report on a proposal from the council and the european parliament is intended only to introduce specifications to harmonise legislation and ensure transparency in the member states as regards certain lactoproteins (caseins and caseinates) intended for human consumption. the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation body to ensure that the standards are complied with.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, as i considered that it would be prudent to harmonise this matter with international standards on general food law, which would allow the free movement of safe, wholesome foodstuffs that contribute to the health and well-being of european citizens. i would stress the provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption as mandatory information to be included on packaging, containers and labels, enabling consumers to make informed decisions regarding food allergies and intolerances.
in addition to the technical nature of this text which we voted on, one of the aspects of particular relevance has to do with the best possible information for the consumer. it is essential to have a system which allows the clear identification of potentially allergenic substances, which means that they must be labelled. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ as regards harmonisation with international standards (codex alimentarius), it is proposed to set the parameters for the maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs at 12% (instead of the 10% previously provided) and the maximum milk fat content of casein in acid foodstuffs at 2% (instead of the 2,25%). in order to allow for the rapid adaptation of annexes i to iii (standards for food casein, food casein obtained from coal and food caseinates with regard to their composition, contamination, process aids used, etc.) to international standards and future technical progress, the commission also suggests the adoption of delegated acts. it is suggested that the power to adopt delegated acts to adapt the annexes should not be conferred on the commission for an unlimited period of time, but only for 5 years, and it is proposed that a date be set for the application of this directive in the member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, as i considered it important to approximate the laws of the member states concerning certain lactoproteins (caseins and caseinates) intended for human consumption by repealing the current european council directive 83/417/eec. the european commission's proposal to replace the current directive should be considered in the context of general food law, which aims to allow the free movement of safe and wholesome foodstuffs, thus contributing significantly to the health and well-being of citizens. in this respect, although the products covered by the proposal (caseins and caseinates) are not intended for sale to the final consumer but only between companies for the preparation of food products, the proposal is important in that it implements the need for food business operators to have the necessary information on the labelling of final products and for the compositional requirements for food caseins to be harmonised with international standards.
‒ proposes to approximate the laws of the member states concerning certain caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, taking into account other legislation adopted in the meantime, in particular in the food sector, and to harmonise the compositional requirements for caseins in foodstuffs with the relevant international standard (codex alimentarius). the products covered by the proposal are not intended for sale to the final consumer but are used for the preparation of foodstuffs and are therefore traded between companies in the sector. it is important that food business operators have the information necessary for the labelling of final products, in particular when allergens are involved. for this reason, the proposal provides for provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. if the mandatory information provided for therein is not provided on the packaging, containers or labels, those products may not be placed on the market as food caseins and caseinates or used for the preparation of foodstuffs. we voted in favour of the
in writing. - i support mrs gräßle's report, which contains important amendments to the financial regulation. amendments to the financial regulation were urgently needed to take account of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. the rapporteur has tried, and succeeded, to increase transparency and to create conditions for the proper use of community resources. i welcome the fact that the results of the internal audits of the commission are now being transmitted to the european parliament under the discharge procedure. i welcome the strengthening of the evaluation procedures for the implementation of the union budget, in particular the weighting of the resulting european added value. i agree with the respect of sustainability criteria and labour rules in tendering procedures. i support the exclusion from tendering of companies owing social security debts and the stricter rules on conflicts of interest.
‒ this proposal for a regulation includes an amendment to article 190 of the financial regulation concerning 'public procurement for external actions'. the reasoning relates to the alleged significant delays in the acquisition of essential equipment and services, which affect the effectiveness of the so-called crisis management operations under the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and, in particular, of civilian missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp). the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a directive, but a proposal for a directive, and i am not going to go into it. this is not about simplifying procedures to help refugees and migrants more effectively, for example, or other charities in crisis situations. on the contrary, the content, orientation and objectives of the cfsp and the csdp are themselves seeds of crisis and not factors helping to resolve it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation laying down the financial provisions applicable to the general budget of the union. the european parliament has considerable power to improve the rules for implementing the budget, in terms of increasing the visibility and benefits of union funding for citizens.
‒ euratom was set up in 1957 with the aim of developing the peaceful use of nuclear energy in member states which shared this objective, preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and coordinating the research programmes of the member states on the peaceful use of nuclear energy. i am voting in favour of this report which safeguards the fact that public procurement in the union is used to ensure that european funds are used effectively, transparently and appropriately. it should also be underlined that electronic public procurement should contribute to a better use of public funds and improve access to public procurement for all economic operators.
the aim of this proposal is to amend the financial regulation on the financial provisions applicable to the general budget of the union in order to take account of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts by the european institutions. in view of the alignment of the financial regulation with the new directives, i welcome the amendments that have been included, also stressing that, in accordance with the principle of sustainability, contracting entities must take appropriate measures to ensure that, during the execution of contracts, economic operators comply with the obligations arising from environmental, social and labour legislation laid down in national and community legislation. in addition, works and service concessions are now introduced for the first time in the financial regulation and are subject to the same types of public procurement procedures. finally, like the rapporteur, i believe that public procurement in the union should be used to ensure that union funds are used effectively, transparently and appropriately, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ this proposal includes an amendment to article 190 of the financial regulation concerning 'public procurement for external actions'. the reasoning relates to the alleged significant delays in the acquisition of essential equipment and services which affect the effectiveness of crisis management operations under the common foreign and security policy and in particular of civilian missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp). the motive is commendable. however, given the content of most of the missions in concrete terms, which reflects the political priorities of the current eu, we are uncomfortable with this relaxation of the rules. if the eu were more willing to help refugees by creating humanitarian corridors, or to contribute to peace initiatives in the middle east, or to intervene in the collapsing agricultural markets, we would be enthusiastically applauding this initiative at this moment.
‒ this proposal includes an amendment to article 190 of the financial regulation concerning 'public procurement for external actions'. the reasoning relates to the alleged significant delays in the acquisition of essential equipment and services which affect the effectiveness of 'crisis management operations' under the common foreign and security policy and in particular of civilian missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp). it is curious how this change is so quickly provided for - when it comes to actions which, often under the guise of humanitarian missions, conceal a deeply militaristic vocation - in contrast to so many other social needs which do not deserve the same attention.
the invitation to merkel and hollande, in and of itself, shows the intention to enshrine a legitimizing vision of the directory which has essentially determined the direction of the process of european capitalist integration. we, of course, strongly condemn and reject this intention. but the speeches given here have proved very enlightening. they shed light on the deep crisis in which the eu finds itself, on its insurmountable contradictions and its insurmountable historical limits. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. the european union's role in the world is profoundly negative, and its criminal complicity with the usa and nato is evident in the situation in the middle east, africa and ukraine. perhaps without knowing it, merkel and hollande, however much they talk about the future, are already in the past. the disrespect for the sovereignty of the peoples and for democracy, the attack on fundamental rights and freedoms, the attempt to impose a retreat of civilizational dimensions on europe will sooner or later be irrevocably defeated by the struggle of the workers and peoples.
in writing. the european union is at a historic turning point. having overcome the economic and financial crisis, it is now facing a social and values crisis due to the plight of refugees seeking refuge in europe. i would like to stress that we must move towards greater economic, political and social integration which will overcome the constraints which still exist throughout europe. we must move towards the creation of the digital single market, which will facilitate the sale of products online and boost the activities of start-ups, just as it is essential to end cross-border links in the areas of transport and energy. finally, i believe that the european union must move towards greater political integration, where everyone has the opportunity to actively participate in more european activities and solidarity between all 28 member states is strengthened.
the european union is in a deep stalemate. although the european union is by its nature a partnership between equals, the economic and political weight of france and germany is decisive in its evolution. it has been so in the past and it will be so in the future. as françois hollande said, 'the choice is not between more or less europe. it is between the affirmation of europe or its destruction". we have to reject europe at various speeds. the european construction, on the other hand, must be carried out by a number of different people. the will of its peoples, working together for a new ambition and a new vision for the european project. angela merkel wants 'the european union to come out of this crisis stronger and more cohesive'. the way forward is the way of inclusion, growth and jobs.
mr president, we are aware of many of the concerns of economic operators, particularly as regards the lack of transparency as regards the real costs of payment cards, the barriers to entry on the payment market and the multilateral interchange fees. the european central bank's figures show a huge disproportion between the costs of these operations and the amounts charged to beneficiaries and consumers. further studies are therefore needed on the real costs of electronic payment methods and the lack of transparency in this area. in this context, it would be desirable for this directive to give every citizen the right to open an account with minimum and free banking services, taking into account the advantages this brings to society in general. despite the effort of this legislative initiative, we still have a complex legislative product, where we want to move in one direction, but at the same time create conditions to circumvent the legislation. the non-application of any limit to fees charged by banks to third party payment service providers is just one example.
madam president, the tragedy that struck kolantar and devecser five years ago was indeed immense, with many hundreds of people killed, injured or affected by homelessness, and what we witnessed at the time was a total barrier of silence. in fact, the hungarian government has done everything possible to try to hide the effects of the tragedy. if we knew firsthand what happened, it was from the families of the victims that we brought here to parliament just a year later. so don't come here and say that everything is fine because i'd like to know exactly what the standards are that apply to this company today. do not come here and say that the polluter pays principle is working and that a lot of things have been done, because, frankly, you don't have to go very far. i can invite you to come to my country, portugal, to a small town, ribeira da patanha, to see how a multinational company contaminates every day a community that has no way of surviving beyond the land. so no, it's not all right. but above all we have an obligation not only to prevent but to act, and to act is also to have a european civil protection service that can act when disasters happen.
mr president, the importance of proper treatment of hazardous waste is unquestionable, as hungary has sadly witnessed. i think the solution to the treatment of most of these pollutants is to include them in the circular economy, so that their value pays for their treatment and that this step is accompanied by particularly efficient supervision. however, in some eu countries, law enforcement agencies involved in environmental implementation still struggle with a lack of human resources, technological resources and specific skills. this is more a result of the concentration of economic efforts in the states on banking and financial matters. what good is a good gross domestic product if you don't manage the environment properly? the european union should request information from each member state on the use of funds for industrial environmental monitoring. the analysis of this use should result in public reports that can be followed by the general public.
mr president, the development of the so-called energy union will mean nothing else than the subordination of this strategic and vital sector in modern economies and societies to the interests of the major european powers and their increasingly transnational economic groups, both from the point of view of infrastructure development and from the point of view of the ambitious integration of markets. the answer to major and pressing issues such as improving energy efficiency, diversifying sources, including the sustainable use of each country's endogenous potential, security of supply or the energy isolation of certain member states, among others, will all be relegated to the background. these are questions which can only be properly addressed within the framework of democratic public control of the energy sector. energy is a precious public good which must be rescued from the hands of private sector monopolies - monopolies for the benefit of which this energy union is being developed.
mr president, the plan which ran from 2010 to 2015 contributed to the development of a whole range of new policies in the field of cooperation and development. however, there are still a number of situations which need to be intensified and others which merit more tailored treatment or even new approaches. the plan to be implemented between 2015 and 2020 should be ambitious and coherent. it is intended to promote a cultural change at the level of the institutions. it should embrace the social and political objectives of the european union, aligning them with our role in the world. the promotion of gender equality, also in other geographies, should be a key component of this new plan. i would stress the possibility of extending the objectives of this policy to the commercial activity of the union. fair trade is an effective way of driving behavioural change by promoting development at source, trust in destiny and fairness in economic and social relations.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the directive. some examples are: the promotion of collective bargaining and criticism of the attack on it today; the promotion of the role of trade unions in promoting equal treatment and the concept of equal pay in employment; the call for vocational assessment and classification systems to be based on collective bargaining; the recognition that member states should guarantee maternity-related rights - in particular the prevention of unfair dismissal of women workers during pregnancy or when they return to work after maternity leave; the recommendation to member states to take measures to ensure that the burden of proof is reversed, ensuring that it is always the employer's responsibility to prove that they do not discriminate. now, two things would be important: first, that the words go from the paper to the action. in many countries, it is not because there is no legislation protecting women's rights that discrimination occurs; secondly, the economic measures which this parliament approves do not contradict these principles.
in writing. in the global gender gap index of the world economic forum, portugal, my country, was in 2014 in 39th place. let's look at some numbers: 31% of seats in the national parliament are held by women, 21% of ministerial posts are held by women and there are only 12% of women on company boards. a portuguese man earns on average 30% more than a portuguese woman. for these reasons, i find it very positive that this report explicitly states that member states should legislate to oblige companies to draw up and define annual business plans on gender equality and women's rights and also men who take care of family members, and to ensure a balanced representation of women and men on boards of directors.
in writing. i welcome the presentation of the digital single market strategy by the european commission following up on the priorities put forward by the juncker commission which responds to the challenges of the digital age. the digital single market should ensure the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, and citizens and businesses should enjoy seamless access to and conduct online activities in conditions of fair competition and with a high level of protection of consumers and their personal data, regardless of their nationality or place of residence. despite these principles already being enshrined in article 20 (2) of the services directive, supplemented by article 8 (3) of the consumer rights directive, european consumers are facing major problems in online shopping today for territorial reasons, whether it is denied delivery in another member state, price discrimination or ip geo-blocking. this is an opportunity to end these unjustified limitations by putting the consumer back at the centre of the digital market, adapting the existing rules to our societal realities and shifting the paradigm from justifying the exception to guaranteeing the benefits of the internal market to consumers.
on behalf of the group. madam president, the sentencing of the young shia man ali mohammed al-nimr to death by beheading followed by crucifixion is yet another cruel medieval punishment against human rights activists in saudi arabia, persecuted for exercising freedom of expression and other civil and political rights in trials that do not clearly meet international fair trial standards. the high representative, federica mogherini, and the member states should publicly express outrage at this sectarian condemnation, which attacks the most basic dignity of the human person, and should put pressure on the saudi authorities at all levels to put an end to the barbarity. in view of this case and many others, such as the whipping and imprisonment of raif badawi, the union and the member states must put an end to 'business as usual' and reassess their relations with saudi arabia in other areas such as trade, energy, security and military cooperation. the silence of european leaders is intolerable because saudi arabia supplies oil and buys weapons. this silence is complicity . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i have a point of order concerning rule 130 of the rules of procedure. the limitation of the maximum number of written questions that each member may put is an aberrant measure that limits the political intervention of members. now, to put more than five questions we have to justify the urgency of putting that question. the situation is so abhorrent that yesterday i received a reply from the parliament's services rejecting a question i had put because they do not consider it urgent to question the european commission about alleged attacks by military forces on refugees in recent days. how is it possible that bureaucrats decide whether or not what members consider politically urgent to question is urgent? are the services of this parliament to support the work of members or to hinder the work of members?
‒ i support the tajani report because i believe that this proposal on payment services in the internal market sets out a harmonised legal framework to establish an integrated market for payments that is fairer and safer for users. the new rules, which have already been agreed with the council, will improve the security of online transactions (payment services via the internet or mobile phones) and protect european consumers from fraud or payment incidents. i welcome provisions that make information clearer to consumers, such as the charges to be paid, the maximum execution time of the payment service, the contact of the payment initiation service provider and the applicable exchange rate, in online payment services. the elimination of barriers and costs in the payment system should be emphasised.
‒ this directive aims to enhance the security of online transactions, protect consumers against fraud or payment incidents, cover new providers and encourage the development of innovative services. with the expansion of electronic commerce, it is necessary to update the rules on payments in order to promote security, competition and innovation. the reduction in costs and the greater choice for users are some of the benefits that have been pointed out and with which i agree.
in writing. ‒ in general, we follow the concerns that have been expressed by economic operators about the lack of transparency regarding the real costs of payment cards, the barriers to entry in the payments market and the multilateral interchange fees. the data from the european central bank (ecb) show a huge disproportion between the costs of these operations and the amounts charged to beneficiaries and consumers. further studies on the real costs of electronic payment methods are needed to address the existing lack of transparency. the present situation would justify legislative action in a number of areas. this directive does not, however, fully meet this need. it was necessary to apply limits to the fees charged by banks to third party payment service providers, which is not the case. this is just one example, among many others, of how, in the end, no matter how pious the intentions expressed, in practice everything can stay the same. it is not the first time these issues have been discussed here. once again, essential questions remain unanswered.
‒ choice and transparency of payment services are key to enabling consumers, traders and businesses to take full advantage of the internal market, which is fundamental to the growth of the union's economy. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on payment services in the internal market.
‒ the review of the union legal framework for payment services, and in particular the impact assessment of directive 2007/64/ec and the consultation on the commission green paper of 11 january 2012 entitled 'towards an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments', showed that the developments identified raised significant regulatory challenges. i am voting in favour of this report which seeks to fill the existing regulatory gaps, while ensuring greater legal clarity and a coherent application of the legislative framework throughout the union. equivalent conditions for the exercise of business should be guaranteed to existing and new operators, allowing for the widespread introduction of new means of payment on the market and ensuring a high level of consumer protection in the use of such payment services throughout the union. i also believe that the continued development of an integrated internal market for secure electronic payments is key to supporting the growth of the european union economy and to ensuring that consumers, merchants and businesses can enjoy the choice and transparency of payment services in order to take full advantage of the internal market.
‒ this proposal for a european parliament and council directive on payment services in the internal market, amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec, aims to establish a new harmonised legal framework for the creation of an integrated payments market. the proposed measures aim, inter alia, to ensure a level playing field between all categories of payment service providers, to facilitate the provision of an innovative card with mobile payment services, to remove obstacles to competition, in particular for card and internet payments, among others. for its proper implementation, i consider it essential to ensure a coherent application of the legislative framework, aligning the practical functioning of licensing and oversight rules between member states and an adequate and consistent protection of consumers' interests in the context of payment transactions, including the extension of regulatory protection to new payment services. i am in general agreement with the proposed amendments and therefore vote in favour.
‒ we share many of the concerns of economic operators, in particular the lack of transparency on the real costs of payment cards, barriers to entry in the payments market and multilateral interchange fees. the data from the european central bank (ecb) show a huge disproportion between the costs of these operations and the amounts charged to beneficiaries and consumers. further studies are needed on the real costs of electronic payment methods and the lack of transparency in this area. in this context, it would be desirable for this directive to give every citizen the right to open an account with minimum and free banking services, taking into account the advantages this brings to society in general. instead, and despite the effort of this legislative initiative, we have another legislative tangle, where we want to move in one direction while creating conditions to circumvent the legislation. the non-application of any limit to fees charged by banks to third parties and payment service providers is just one example.
‒ the data from the european central bank (ecb) show a huge disproportion between the costs of these operations and the amounts charged to beneficiaries and consumers. further studies are needed on the real costs of electronic payment methods and the lack of transparency in this area. it would be important to give every citizen the right to open an account with minimal and free banking services, taking into account the advantages this brings to society at large. this legislative initiative does not provide for this, which is a negative thing.
‒ in spain, civil society organisations continue to protest against the hundreds of thousands of evictions, abusive clauses in mortgage contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers. according to the latest figures, there were 19 261 evictions in spain during the first quarter of 2015 (an increase of 6% compared to the first quarter of 2014), with more than 100 000 families losing their homes. financial institutions should cease abusive behaviour towards customers in the field of mortgages, sophisticated financial products and credit cards, including the application of excessive interest rates and arbitrary cancellation of services, and avoid eviction of families living in their only dwelling, instead promoting debt restructuring and social leasing.
‒ since the beginning of the most acute phase of the capitalist crisis in which europe and the world have been plunged (2007-2008), millions of citizens have lost their life savings, their jobs, their homes. in spain the problem of evictions was and is felt with particular acuteness. several social organizations continue to protest against the hundreds of thousands of evictions, allowed by abusive clauses in mortgage contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers. according to the platform of mortgage victims (pah), there were 19 261 evictions in spain during the first quarter of 2015 (an increase of 6% compared to the first quarter of 2014) and it is estimated that more than 397 954 evictions have occurred in spain since 2008. the mortgage credit directive has not substantially changed the present picture. as so often happens, miraculous "regulatory measures" supposedly designed to stop abuses of the financial system by those who do not want to attack the problem at its root have revealed their ineffectiveness. as a result, thousands of families continue to live through the drama of eviction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution because it does not follow the position expressed.
‒ the legislation and banking practices on mortgages and other risky financial instruments in the european union deserve increased attention. in addition to the cases mentioned in spain, there are many more throughout the european union. and in the face of this situation we must consider whether it is not time to try to standardize consumer rights and their levels of protection. with the member states going through difficult financial times and with unemployment levels in the european union, i believe we should try to achieve mechanisms to end abusive practices and clauses in the banking and mortgage sector, to end the lack of protection for borrowers and to prevent financial fraud. the european union's economy also depends on the credibility of its agents and the feeling of security that citizens have in its banking system. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of adopting this document.
‒ there are thousands of petitions reporting the tragic personal situations of citizens who have lost part or all of their life savings and proving the obstacles consumers face in obtaining accurate information on financial instruments. civil society organizations continue to protest against the thousands of evictions, the abusive clauses in mortgage contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers. abusive clauses and practices in the spanish mortgage sector have been detected by the national and european courts. the resolution suggests that the commission should monitor the implementation of and ensure compliance by the national authorities with the mortgage legislation in force.
‒ in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, thousands of citizens have lost part or all of their life savings. in spain, civil society organizations continue to protest against the hundreds of thousands of evictions due to abusive clauses in mortgage contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers. according to the platform of mortgage victims (plataforma de afectados de la hipoteca pah), 19 261 evictions were recorded in spain during the first quarter of 2015 (an increase of 6% compared to the first quarter of 2014), and it is estimated that more than 397 954 evictions have occurred in spain since 2008. the famous mortgage credit directive was just an attempt to make up for the situation with the usual regulatory measures supposedly designed to stop the abuses of the financial system. that is, nothing has been done to solve this drama of thousands of families. and everything remains the same as regards access to housing, particularly with regard to young people who are unemployed and will continue to be so, despite the millions of empty fireplaces.
‒ in spain, civil society organisations continue to protest against the hundreds of thousands of evictions due to abusive clauses in mortgage contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers according to the platform of mortgage victims (plataforma de afectados de la hipoteca pah), 19 261 evictions were recorded in spain during the first quarter of 2015 (an increase of 6% compared to the first quarter of 2014) and it is estimated that more than 397 954 evictions have occurred in spain since 2008. the famous mortgage credit directive was just an attempt to make up for the situation, with the usual regulatory measures supposedly designed to stop abuses in the financial system. in other words, nothing has been done to solve this drama for thousands of families, which is spreading to more and more countries.
‒ the death penalty is incompatible with the values at the heart of the european project, with emphasis on human dignity. the reintroduction of such a measure by a member state would constitute a flagrant breach of the european charter of fundamental rights and the treaties. with just a few days to go until the world day against the death penalty (10 october), i support this resolution, which clearly shows that there are still too many countries that practice the death penalty, too many people who are sentenced to death, too many who are executed. that's 33 countries, and at least 2,466 convicted and 667 executed in 2014 alone. it seems clear to me that the union cannot refrain from leading the change in the status quo at world level. however, the first steps need to be taken, such as drawing up a strategy by the external action service and the member states to influence our partners. this resolution does just that: it calls for the much needed concrete steps towards the universal abolition of the death penalty.
‒ the total abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of eu human rights policy. in fact, the death penalty is incompatible with the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, which are the foundations of the union. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose a maximum sentence of life imprisonment for the offence of murder. it is noted that in 2014, more than 2466 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death, representing a 23% increase over 2013. in 2014, at least 607 people were executed and these figures do not include the number of people who were executed in china, which continued to execute more people than the rest of the world. the death penalty is often used against the most disadvantaged, the mentally ill and members of national and cultural minorities. i reiterate the condemnation of the use of the death penalty. the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity. i condemn all executions and express my deep concern at the practice of stoning, which is still practised in several countries.
‒ we condemn the death penalty and call for its abolition. we regret that the death penalty is still applied in at least 55 countries and we note with concern the growing tendency to promote discussion of reversing the abolition of the death penalty by some countries, particularly in europe. we are in general agreement with the content of the resolution. we cannot, however, fail to note the usual hypocrisy, imposed by the majority in the european parliament, in the considerations made with traces of interference and in the discrepancy in the analysis, where, for example, the maintenance of capital punishment in countries such as the usa and china is not treated in the same way, or when the european external action service is put forward as an instrument in the fight against capital punishment, the same instrument that promotes aggressive interventions in third countries responsible for the death of hundreds of people. in spite of these remarks, we voted in favour of the resolution.
‒ i supported the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the death penalty, expressing my condemnation of all executions wherever they take place.
‒ portugal was the first european country to adopt the abolition of the death penalty for all civil crimes in the form of law in the penal and prisons reform of 1867. it is with this same vanguard spirit that i support this motion for a resolution, which strongly condemns the use of the death penalty and supports the introduction of a moratorium on capital punishment as a step towards its definitive abolition. we are talking about human dignity and the ultimate objective of the union's foreign policy, which is universal abolition. a note to the non-governmental organisations and un agencies that reiterate their efforts and present initiatives to encourage states to abolish the death penalty. i believe that the commission should continue to finance projects in this field through the european instrument for democracy and human rights.
‒ the universal abolition of the death penalty is one of the eu's key human rights objectives. the death penalty is incompatible with the values on which the eu is founded and in this regard it is important to leave here a testimony of the strong condemnation that its application arouses and an appeal to the european institutions and the member states to remain vigilant to developments in this field and to continue with determination their fight to abolish the use of the death penalty, strongly supporting the moratorium as a step towards such abolition, and urging those countries that still use the death penalty to comply with international minimum standards, reduce its scope and use and publish accurate and unambiguous data on the number of convictions and executions. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ 10 october is world day against the death penalty. the global abolition of the death penalty remains a key objective of eu human rights policy. in 2014, at least 2,466 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death (an increase of 23% from 2013), not including china, which sentences more than all other countries combined. the eu continues to condemn the use of the death penalty, which is incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, equality and democracy which underpin its constitution. this proposal encourages us all, and in particular the member states, not to give up and to make every effort to put an end to this practice with third countries.
in writing. ‒ over the past 12 months, there has been a worldwide resurgence in the use of the death penalty for drug-related crimes, with some states (such as iran and saudi arabia) experiencing a significant increase in the number of executions for these crimes. other states are seeking to reintroduce the death penalty for drug-related offences (such as oman), and some states have ended the long-standing moratorium on the death penalty (such as indonesia and pakistan). of the 14 countries that carry out the death penalty for drug-related offences, 12 are asian or middle eastern countries. in 2015, 14 people were executed in indonesia for drug trafficking, including 12 foreigners. dozens of people are awaiting execution on death row, including european citizens, such as frenchman serge atlaoui. at a time when we are commemorating the european day against the death penalty, it is time to express our opposition to this practice, which is an affront to human dignity, and to hope that these recent trends will not call into question the progress made over the last century in this regard.
‒ we condemn the death penalty and call for its abolition. we regret that the death penalty is still applied in at least 55 countries and we note with concern the growing tendency to promote discussion of reversing the abolition of the death penalty by some countries, particularly in europe. we are in general agreement with the content of the resolution. we cannot, however, fail to note elements of the usual hypocrisy imposed by the majority of the european parliament in the considerations made with traces of interference and in the discrepancy in the analysis, where, for example, the maintenance of capital punishment in countries such as the usa and china is not treated in the same way, or when the european external action service is put forward as an instrument in the fight against capital punishment, the same instrument that promotes aggressive interventions in third countries responsible for the death of hundreds of people. in spite of these remarks, we voted in favour of the resolution.
‒ the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring around 150 and polluting vast areas, including four natura 2000 sites. it was the most serious industrial disaster in hungary and i pay tribute to the victims on the fifth anniversary of this tragic event. the eu has to take action and it is urgent that eu legislation and international conventions be respected.
in writing. a reservoir of toxic sludge from an aluminum oxide factory has burst, contaminating several towns and cities in hungary. ten people were killed, 150 were injured. this accident exposed the weak enforcement and loopholes in environmental legislation on industrial toxic waste in the eu. it was not the first time accidents of this kind had happened. this was the biggest. the resolution calls for efforts to understand the current situation of waste from mines, its management and treatment. more investment is needed in research and development on the prevention and treatment of this type of toxic waste. it calls for compliance with the polluter-pays principle (we emphasize: in its original meaning, without the distortions that were subsequently introduced, seeking to transmute it into a separate user-pays principle). the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of environmental inspections, which would be more effective and more efficient. regular information to the public on pollution levels and the degree of threat to ecosystems and public health is advocated. although we had some doubts about some of the proposals put forward (such as the suggested risk-sharing instrument), we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ five years after the accident in hungary, there is still a poor implementation of eu legislation and relevant international conventions, as well as poor control. it is essential that lessons be drawn from the disasters that have occurred and that greater prevention and monitoring be implemented.
‒ the red mud catastrophe in hungary in 2010 highlights a serious environmental situation, which calls for cooperation and solidarity at eu level. red sludge is a hazardous waste until proven otherwise in accordance with commission decision 2014/955/eu and may be incorrectly classified in other member states, causing danger to the european community and giving rise to improper authorisations. it is essential to take preventive measures to avoid further industrial disasters by correctly applying european environmental legislation and international conventions. progress is also needed in developing monitoring and inspection instruments in this area at eu level. member states should take steps to ensure that the 'polluter pays' principle is respected. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution, stressing the need to close the gaps in european legislation and calling for cooperation by all member states in preventing environmental disasters and sharing financial risks.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring around 150 and polluting vast areas, including four natura 2000 sites. five years on, it is important to pay tribute to the victims. it is also important to take stock of the situation regarding the development of the prevention of such disasters. parliament expressed concern that in practice the lessons drawn from this tragic event had not been learned, as none of the gaps in eu legislation had been closed and weak enforcement of eu legislation and relevant international conventions and weaknesses in controls continued. the commission and the member states must therefore intensify their efforts to ensure the prevention of pollution and the treatment of hazardous waste. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring around 150 and polluting vast areas. commission decision 2014/955/eu states that red sludge is to be classified as hazardous waste. there is a risk that these have been classified as non-hazardous waste in other member states. the proposal warns of this situation and expresses concern that no lessons have been learned in the last five years. the implementation of eu legislation and relevant international conventions remains weak, coupled with successive weaknesses in controls. we are calling in a clear way for the member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the most serious industrial disaster in hungary, caused by the rupture of a waste reservoir, which spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people and injuring about 150. five years after the tragic accident, i pay a simple tribute to all the victims, and i commend those who, with great effort, intervened quickly and effectively in the resolution of this event, trying to find the best solutions to eliminate and reduce damage. this incident also served to show that there is still a weak and incorrect implementation of european legislation, so it is essential to develop work not only at the level of correct application of legislation, but also at the level of inspections, controls and prevention of future disasters, so that serious incidents like these do not happen again in the future.
‒ the importance of proper treatment of hazardous waste is unquestionable. hungary has been a sad witness to this. i take this opportunity to supplement my statements in the plenary by reiterating that i consider it essential to find solutions for the proper management of this waste and that these have two approaches. on the one hand, we must create the conditions for hazardous waste to be effectively treated, by giving it economic value and by creating extraordinary guarantees to compensate for losses caused by accidents. at the same time, i believe that transparency must accompany the whole process of handling hazardous waste. this process must start at the planning level of its use up to its final destination and includes a possible remediation phase, which is not expected to be necessary. these are some of the reasons why i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ this accident, which occurred five years ago and is reported here, exposed the poor enforcement and loopholes in eu environmental laws on industrial toxic waste. it revealed the fragility of the inspection system, which is either non-existent or ineffective, and its failure to be complied with by both the member states and the industrialists who own the factories. sadly, this disaster is not unique. we all remember similar events in spain or romania. this resolution calls for lessons to be learned and efforts to be made to understand the current situation of mine waste, its management and treatment, five years after this major accident in hungary. the commission is asked to invest and give greater emphasis to research and development in the prevention and treatment of this type of toxic waste. the real and effective prevention of pollution and environmental risks from extractive industries, among others, requires stricter environmental rules for environmental inspections, which implies allocating more resources to the national bodies responsible for these inspections. more transparency is needed, with the responsible authorities regularly informing the public about the state of pollution and the possible impacts on fauna and flora, as well as on the health of local populations.
‒ the explosion of a toxic sludge reservoir from an aluminium oxide plant has contaminated several towns and cities in hungary. ten people were killed, 150 were injured. this accident exposed the weak enforcement and loopholes in environmental legislation on industrial toxic waste in the eu. the resolution calls for efforts to understand the current situation of waste from mines, its management and treatment. more investment is needed in research and development on the prevention and treatment of this type of toxic waste. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of environmental inspections, which would be more effective and more efficient. regular information to the public on pollution levels and the degree of threat to ecosystems and public health is advocated. we voted yes.
‒ the european union has promoted gender equality and has sought to ensure that the gender dimension is mainstreamed in all its actions. however, progress towards gender equality and women's empowerment has been slow and uneven. progress is reported in all countries. according to the latest figures, around 800 women die every day worldwide from complications during pregnancy and childbirth; some 222 million women in developing countries do not have access to safe and modern methods of family planning; the majority of the world's poor are women and women-led households; 62 million girls worldwide are out of school. i therefore agree that the action plan should develop specific actions to strengthen the rights of different groups of women, paying particular attention to young people, migrants, women and people with disabilities.
in writing. the resolution states that progress towards gender equality and women's empowerment, as well as maternal health, has been slow and uneven. no country in the world has fully bridged the gender gap. it is noted that the percentage of development aid allocated to family planning in relation to total world aid allocated to health has decreased. the report calls for a significant change in eu action on gender equality and women's empowerment and points to measures. the use of qualitative and quantitative gender-sensitive indicators and the collection of gender-disaggregated data in a timely and systematic manner are emphasised and, to this end, member states are invited to set up gender-sensitive monitoring systems. the need for the eu to ensure sufficient human and financial resources to meet its commitments in this area is underlined. the resolution recommends that very concrete measures be included in the second gender action plan. among others: the call for the guarantee of the rights of different groups of women (young people, migrants, hiv-infected patients, lgbti and disabled); the recognition of the importance of universal access to sexual and reproductive health care and rights; the recognition of the urgency of eliminating social and legal barriers. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that member states take the opportunity to simplify and update their legislation on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in areas related to employment and occupation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the member states work together in an articulated way to promote greater equality of opportunity in all areas related to employment.
‒ equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles on which the eu is founded. gender equality and the empowerment of women are a precondition for achieving the sustainable development goals and the eu should ensure their promotion and mainstreaming in all its policies and actions. the truth, however, is that progress towards gender equality and women's empowerment has been slow, and these goals remain largely unfulfilled. in this respect, and as the commission is currently working on the new gender action plan (gap2), it is important to ensure a radical change in eu action on gender issues and a renewed political commitment that can bring greater effectiveness to the results achieved. the resolution makes a number of recommendations on the main aspects to be addressed by the gsp2. i voted in favour.
‒ the evaluation of the gender action plan 1 (gap 1) revealed the need for a radical change in gender equality and women's empowerment. this is why this gap 2 has emerged, which advocates gender equality (ge) as a central element of the activities of the european union institutions, seeking to ensure that in future ge issues are included in the annual reports of all commission directorates-general involved in external action. it clearly highlights several areas of intervention: violence against women, rape as a weapon of war, sexual and reproductive rights, equal pay, motherhood and reconciliation of work and family life, the role of formal and informal education, the vulnerability of migrant, refugee and asylum-seeking women, among many others.
‒ the plan which ran from 2010 to 2015 contributed to the development of a set of new policies in the field of cooperation and development. however, there are still a number of situations which need to be intensified and others which merit more tailored treatment or even new approaches. the plan to be implemented between 2016 and 2020 should be ambitious and coherent. it is intended to promote a cultural change at the level of the institutions. it should embrace the social and political objectives of the european union and align them with our role in the world. the promotion of gender equality, also in other geographies, should be a key component of this new plan. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ unfortunately, and despite all the talk about the subject, the majority of the world's poor are women and households run by women. worse still, the vulnerability of marginalized women is increasing. worldwide, 62 million girls are out of school. one in three women in the world will be a victim of physical and sexual violence at some point in her life. although the eu has committed itself to respecting the right of all individuals to have full control over their sexuality and sexual and reproductive health and to decide freely and responsibly on these matters, without discrimination, coercion and violence, we are again debating this issue with the crude figures that demonstrate the failure of the gender action plan. more action and more resources are needed. and we must not isolate this problem, which is real and concrete, but which is not detached from the neoliberal orientations which guide eu policies and which promote the concentration of wealth and the spread of poverty.
‒ the resolution states that progress towards gender equality and women's empowerment, as well as maternal health, has been slow and uneven. no country in the world has fully bridged the gender gap. it is noted that the percentage of development aid allocated to family planning in relation to total world aid allocated to health has decreased. the need for the eu to ensure sufficient human and financial resources to meet its commitments in this area is underlined. the resolution recommends that very concrete measures be included in the second gender action plan. among others: the call for the guarantee of the rights of different groups of women (young people, migrants, hiv-infected patients, lgbti and disabled); the recognition of the importance of universal access to sexual and reproductive health care and rights; the recognition of the urgency of eliminating social and legal barriers. it is a positive resolution.
in writing. directive 2006/54/ec consolidated a set of community instruments on gender equality in employment and occupation. although gender equality is in the dna of the union itself, little progress has been made. this report, which i support and vote for, acknowledges that progress has been made, but as parliament has consistently argued, more effective measures are needed. the main objective of the directive is to combat the gender pay gap, but also indirect discrimination in the context of workplace assessment, recruitment systems and pension schemes. without regulatory excesses or bureaucratic red tape, all measures should be considered and cooperation and exchange of best practices between member states encouraged. it is true, however, that listed companies should be subject to stricter regulation than a micro-enterprise. for the most part, public bodies are required to have a flawless record.
‒ all women, regardless of age, education or social status, are potential victims of discrimination in the workplace, whether direct or indirect. the impact of employment inequality cannot be underestimated. in fact, equal pay for men and women is a matter of fairness and motivation. at the same time, it can also be understood as a family-related issue. in europe, the welfare of many families depends on women's earnings. most mothers participate in the labour market and many even bear the primary responsibility for supporting their families as the sole or main source of livelihood. however, over the last decade the gender pay gap, as an important indicator of gender inequality in the labour market, has almost stagnated, from 17,5% in 2008 to 16,4% in 2012. i agree with the need to review the directive on this matter.
‒ equal treatment and the principle of non-discrimination are principles enshrined in eu primary legislation. however, by action - by virtue of their policies - and by omission, we are far from seeing them in the eu. over the past decade, the gender pay gap has almost stagnated, going from 17.5% in 2008 to 16.4% in 2012. this own-initiative report is important. among other aspects, labour policies aimed at ending the principle and practice of collective bargaining and favouring individual wage negotiation are noteworthy. the level of occupational and sectoral segregation between men and women in different types of employment remains high, with some occupational categories predominantly occupied by women, and these sectors and professions are less well paid or valued. income disparities between men and women increase after retirement, with women's pensions on average 39% lower than men's; the role of trade unions and employers and civil society organisations in promoting equal treatment and the concept of equal pay in employment is highlighted. the report makes a number of positive recommendations and its scope is satisfactory, so we voted in favour.
‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. the report drawn up by the rapporteur departs from what should be its main purpose: the defence of equal treatment between men and women. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that member states take the opportunity to simplify and update their legislation on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in areas related to employment and occupation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the member states work together in an articulated way to promote greater equality of opportunity in all areas related to employment. i voted against the introduction of quotas in listed companies and in politics because i believe that women should be in these positions because of their competence, ability to work and prestige rather than just because of a numerical categorisation in terms of board of directors or political activity.
‒ equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles on which the eu is founded. this resolution addresses the issue of gender equality in the context of employment and occupation. in this respect, it is worrisome to note that, although the principle of equal pay has been enshrined in eu law since 1957, the gender pay, pension and employment gaps persist. in this regard, and given that greater equality between men and women is not only a matter of fairness and justice but also brings numerous benefits to the economy and society and is essential to promoting growth, competitiveness and economic recovery, it is important that the eu and its member states implement measures to ensure the effective implementation of the provisions on equal pay and equal treatment. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in agreement with the rapporteur's recommendations in this respect in general.
‒ the rapporteur considers that the current directive 2006/54/ec needs to be updated. the report focuses on the gender pay gap, work-life balance, discrimination in pension schemes, the concept of equal work, pay transparency and access to justice, among other relevant and important issues. i would like to stress the issue of equal pay. ten years after the introduction of an eu law aimed at ensuring equal pay for equal work for men and women, women still receive on average 16% less (a fact exacerbated by the economic crisis). one of the reasons for this discrepancy was the lack of sanctions for companies that persistently treat men and women unequally. this is a situation that the report's report attempts to address by providing for sanctions for some companies (those listed on eu stock exchanges) if they choose not to meet their responsibilities with regard to gender pay equality. it also suggests that member states do the same with publicly funded companies. it was a courageous and decisive step toward justice.
‒ in the global gender gap index of the world economic forum, portugal was ranked 39th in 2014. here are some figures: 31% of the seats in the national parliament are held by women, 21% of ministerial posts are held by women and there are only 12% of women on company boards. a portuguese man earns on average 30% more than a portuguese woman. for these reasons, i find it very positive that this report explicitly states that member states should legislate to ensure a balanced representation of women and men on boards.
‒ equal treatment and the principle of non-discrimination are an important part of eu primary legislation. however, over the past decade, the gender pay gap has almost stagnated, going from 17.5% in 2008 to 16.4% in 2012. the current directive 2006/54/ec (recast) has thus reached its limits and needs to be updated. amongst many things, it is intended to introduce mandatory pay audits for listed companies in the member states, with the exception of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and the possibility of applying sanctions in case of non-compliance, or the need for the country-specific recommendations, within the framework of the european semester, to include targets to reduce the gender pay gap, discrimination and the risk of poverty of older women and to apply in fact the principles of equal treatment. these are positive ideas. however, this issue cannot be dissociated from a wider context which has to do with the fight against exploitation and the general backsliding of which all workers, and particularly women, are victims.
in writing. ‒ this report has very positive aspects, including the defence of the role played by trade unions in promoting equal treatment and the concept of equal pay in employment; the need for vocational assessment and classification systems to be based, preferably, on collective bargaining; the assumption that ms should guarantee maternity-related rights, in particular the prevention of unfair dismissal of female workers during pregnancy or when they return to work after maternity leave; the finding that data protection cannot be invoked as an excuse for not publishing annual information on wages at the workplace. the report also advocates the need to strengthen public labour inspection mechanisms and for member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that the burden of proof is reversed, ensuring that it is always the employer's responsibility to prove that differences in treatment are not the result of any factor of discrimination. if we could put these positions into practice, we would be on the right track.
mr president, yes, of course the refugee crisis is – and should remain – our central and top priority. nevertheless, i believe that completing economic and monetary union must remain a central priority. we need to address these increasing external pressures, but we also need to cope with very high tensions inside the euro area. we need to restore convergence in the euro area. that is why we need to have a new european semester with proper coordination of economic policies, not only to rebalance the budget but to foster growth and jobs. we do of course need reforms, but we need investment on a large scale, counting on fiscal capacity, and we need to avoid what is now happening on the ground, namely that member states are just competing by downgrading their social standards. so our expectation is that you need to have this roadmap to complete economic and monetary union with a proper social dimension. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– many thanks for your question. i must tell you that you have perhaps misunderstood president hollande. let me tell you that i belong to his club when he says that he fully supports britain’s membership of the european union. we need to have britain in the european union, but we also need to make sure that the euro area will be able to deal with these specific problems. frankly, i think it is possible to find solutions to both issues.
i would like to point out, mr president, that the united kingdom is the subject of this council's debate and that i believe we must make a consistent effort to ensure that the united kingdom remains in the european union. this does not mean, however, that there are no red lines, and it is therefore important that the information that is given can provide the member states with a set of principles and ideas, with proposals, so that we can understand whether or not the united kingdom really wants to remain in the european union, because it also depends on the specific areas and proposals that make up the response that we have to give. that would be a first point. secondly, the question of refugees and, in particular, the situation in turkey. i think we have to act with great urgency at this moment and therefore we have to do some emergency intervention now and then it makes perfect sense to use the platform of turkey and the agreement we have with turkey to ensure the situation of these refugees, to ensure that they are well received and in particular that there is no, let's say, anarchic-chaotic invasion of the european union. but that - and this was the point i wanted to make here - should not make us forget that we must have a european response to our borders. it is therefore important that we start preparing, in the medium to short term, a european response, particularly with regard to our borders, whether maritime, in the mediterranean, or land, on the eastern side. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)).)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. i appreciate your question, but the answer is obvious: the united kingdom already controls its borders, and it controls them within the rules it has accepted, which are the rules of free movement. of course if the uk wants to be in the european union without freedom of movement, it cannot be in the european union - there is no alternative. the free movement of persons is an essential freedom of the european union and it cannot be called into question. so the uk controls its borders. if you want to be in the european union you have to guarantee freedom of movement for european citizens, not for others.
in writing. in the last month, ministers and heads of government met a total of seven times. but even so, member states failed to do enough to respond to the humanitarian emergency, taking too little and too late. i am referring to the relocation mechanism, which still faces resistance and problems on the ground and is clearly insufficient. i am referring to the provision of more human and operational resources to the european agencies, which is so necessary for the operationalisation of hotspots; i am referring to financial support for reception centres, which take time to arrive. i hope therefore that tomorrow the member states will be able to give a clear political impetus to the implementation of these and other measures, and that the humanitarian emergency will indeed be dealt with. clearly, we must not ignore the root cause of this emergency. the diagnosis has been made long ago and the solutions have been put forward long ago. now, it is totally illogical that the political momentum of tomorrow is for the long term when we have not yet been able to solve the present. we don't need catapult measures or media pirouettes to simulate movement. we need to act!
eu leaders will meet on 15 october 2015 in the context of europe's migration and refugee crisis. this will be the fourth european council in six months to focus on the response to the so-called refugee crisis. once again we hear a chorus of good intentions. but in the face of such passivity, we ask where are the values of democracy and human rights that are being preached in all directions by this european union which always boasts of its right to give lessons to the world. the eu is complicit in the crises in libya, syria and iraq. just days ago, we heard the united states lamenting the russian bombing of the terrorist units that the cia had worked so hard to create and train. the eu has therefore a moral duty, not only in the face of its responsibilities in the refugee influx, but also in the name of the values it insists on proclaiming, to welcome all refugees with dignity and to create humanitarian corridors that will put an end to all these perfectly avoidable deaths that wound our consciences.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to greet dr manuela eanes in the gallery, who was awarded the european citizen prize today. we are only a few weeks away from the paris conference, where an ambitious and binding agreement is to be reached at global level. as we approach this, the pressure from some quarters to tone down the level of ambition of a possible agreement is higher than ever. we are concerned about the recent exclusion from the outline conclusions of the conference of co2 emission reduction targets for the shipping and aviation sectors. if progress at icau and imo has been manifestly insufficient so far, the absence of a reference in terms of objectives for these sectors in paris would be simply irresponsible and would constitute political endorsement for the absence of a shared and balanced effort to reduce co2 emissions. maritime and aviation transport together account for about 8% of global emissions and are on the rise. it is not fair to require additional efforts from other sectors, such as energy or industry, which are also struggling to be competitive and whose contribution to reducing emissions is already clear. we must ensure that ambition is maintained in the paris climate agreement.
in writing. at the moment, few issues are as pressing as the increase in climate change on planet earth. if we are not effective in mitigating the effects and reversing the consequences, this will be the last problem that humanity will have to deal with. it's as serious as that. this report, by proposing a very significant increase in renewable energy and by setting out a roadmap for the states, makes an effective contribution to reducing climate change. however, in this statement i want to attach particular importance to the proposal to end subsidies to petroleum products. this option has a deeper content than simply ending a support. with this option we are, in fact, changing the paradigm, giving priority to environmentally friendly energy and putting an early end to passive dependence on fossil fuels. europe takes the lead and contributes to a better world.
the paris summit focuses on climate change control, but underlying this theme is the need to change the principles on which the current process of economic and social globalisation is based. the ep report sets out a proper path and a holistic approach to the problem. it is important that an ambitious and legally ambitious global agreement be defined at the paris summit. it is also important that the european policy for the decarbonisation of the economy and for the technical and social transition should be an example for the world, and that it should be possible to set up a fund to support developing countries which will have to make a greater effort to adapt their growth strategies to the new objectives of sustainability of the planet.
in writing. the ruling by the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) on 6 december, declaring decision 2000/520/ec of the european commission, known as the safe harbour agreement, invalid, has obvious implications for changing the rules on the transfer of personal data from the eu to the us. one consequence of this decision is that transfers of personal data to the usa under the safe harbour are now prohibited in principle, as the principles of this agreement are considered not to ensure an adequate and sufficient level of protection of personal data. it is therefore imperative that measures be taken to put an end to this procedure, ensuring the protection of individual data and thus the fundamental guarantees.
‒ this council implementing decision aims to allow continued access to the vis by national police forces for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist acts and serious crime. this access is the result of a concerted strategy to combat these phenomena. the vis is a european visa database, created to enter data on applicants and visas issued. this makes the whole procedure quicker, the visa safer and the so-called "visa shopping" is combated. the legal basis for this access had already been granted by amending the regulation on the basis of its creation and of which i was rapporteur. this decision - to which parliament must give its assent - merely approves the date of its entry into force and technical elements.
in writing. ‒ decision 2008/633/jha on access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences provides for its taking effect from a date to be determined by the council, when the commission has informed it that regulation (ec) no 767/2008 of the european parliament and of the council has entered into force and is fully applicable. whereas the commission informed the council by letter of 2 july 2013 that that regulation had entered into force and was fully applicable as from 27 september 2011, the conditions triggering the exercise by the council of the implementing powers provided for in decision 2008/633/jha are fulfilled, the present commission proposal aims precisely to fix the date from which decision 2008/633/jha takes effect. in order to ensure continuity of access to the vis for consultation, that proposal, now submitted for consultation by parliament, maintained the date of 1 september 2013 set out in the previous decision 2013/392/eu, which was annulled by the cjeu. i voted in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data in the context of the processing of personal data by europol. the adoption of this measure aims to establish a uniform strategy capable of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist acts and other serious criminal offences. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. there was broad agreement from all the political groups on this matter and there were no grounds for not approving this report, so i voted in favour.
‒ this is a council implementing decision fixing the date from which decision 2008/633/jha on access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences takes effect.
‒ this document is only intended to fix the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. the establishment of a visa information system (vis) is part of the schengen information system (sis) and eurodac, within the framework of the communityisation of the so-called 'third pillar', namely justice and home affairs, and seeks to remove central competences from the member states. the vis is intended to be a system for the exchange of visa data between member states. we have always spoken out against the system of surveillance and securitisation of companies set up by the eu, often under the pretext of the security of citizens but in reality against their fundamental freedoms and guarantees, so we voted against this report.
‒ following the multiple measures presented by the commission to deal with the refugee crisis, it was necessary to make budgetary provisions for them. since the money is needed as quickly as possible, this parliament has used the urgency procedure and approved this amendment to the budget in record time. a eur 100 million increase in the asylum, migration and integration fund, a total increase of 120 staff for frontex, the european asylum support office and europol, and a contribution of eur 300 million to the syria support fund are approved. these measures are not sufficient and must be part of the broader migration strategy. it is also part of a strategy of using unused resources and of anticipating funds, which necessarily has an impact on the multiannual financial framework. the council must therefore not only fulfil its promises to provide extra budgetary contributions to deal with this crisis, but - in the short term - make up for this advance by avoiding that it is used today and then not used tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and social policy. compared to the initial 2015 budget, national gni-based budget contributions could be reduced by eur 2,26 billion, thanks to traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) revenues exceeding the forecasts by eur 1133,5 million. this technical adjustment on the revenue side of the union budget is soundly based on the latest statistical developments and in line with the agreed distribution among member states. none of the elements of draft amending budget no 6/2015 have an impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and their impact on the revenue side is limited to a change in the distribution of contributions between member states
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corresponding corrections in favour of the united kingdom, as well as their financing, which result in the change in the distribution of contributions to the eu budget between the member states. it also includes the creation of two new budget lines for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the european commission in the 'development and cooperation' and 'enlargement' policy areas, as well as a change in the staff of the berec office, without any changes in the total number of posts or in its budget. however, considering that none of the elements of draft amending budget no 6/2015 have an impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and that its impact on the revenue side is limited to a change in the distribution of contributions between member states, and based on the report of the committee on budgets, i voted in favour.
‒ this proposal seeks to present a draft amending budget to the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, covering a revision of the traditional own resources forecast, a revision of the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corrections in favour of the united kingdom and their financing. to that extent, such corrections result in a change in the distribution of the member states' contributions to the general budget of the european union. two new budget lines are also created for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the european commission, intended to compensate for management costs related to the union trust funds for external action. i would stress that none of the elements of this draft amending budget have an impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget, although the effects on the revenue side are limited to a change in the distribution of contributions between the member states, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, as well as the budgeting and financing of the corresponding corrections in favour of the united kingdom, which result in a change in the distribution of contributions to the eu budget between the member states. none of the elements of draft amending budget no 6/2015 have an impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget. its impact on the revenue side is limited to a change in the distribution of member states' contributions.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6 covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corrections in favour of the united kingdom and their financing, which result in a change in the distribution of contributions to the budget of the european union between the member states. these national contributions may be reduced, when compared to the initial 2015 budget, by eur 2,26 billion, as the revenues from traditional own resources exceeded the forecasts by eur 1133,5 million, with the 2014 surplus accruing through amending budget no 3. it also creates two new budget lines for expenditure in support of trust funds managed by the european commission in the areas of intervention 'development and cooperation' and 'enlargement', both with a pro memoria mention (p.m.), and changes in the staff of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications, without any changes in the total number of posts or in its budget. we voted yes.
‒ following the multiple measures presented by the commission to deal with the refugee crisis, it was necessary to make budgetary provisions for them. since the money is needed as quickly as possible, this parliament has used the urgency procedure and approved this amendment to the budget in record time. the council also adopted a decision on the establishment of a european asylum support office (easo) to support the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). these measures are not sufficient and must be part of the broader migration strategy. it is also part of a strategy of using unused resources and of anticipating funds, which necessarily has an impact on the multiannual financial framework. the council must therefore not only fulfil its promises to provide extra money to deal with this crisis, but also - in the short term - make up for this advance by not using it today and then not spending it tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the ceilings to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 with a further eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures to manage the refugee and migration crisis, a proposal which deserves my approval, as well as the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ article 11 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, up to an annual ceiling of eur 471 million (2011 prices), to allow the financing of specifically identified expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more of the other headings. after an analysis of all possibilities for reallocating appropriations within the expenditure ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship), it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 with eur 66,1 million to finance measures in the field of migration. in this connection, and on the basis of the report of the committee on budgets, i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument to provide immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration.
‒ this european parliament resolution concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to provide immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the commission proposal aims to mobilise this flexibility instrument by an amount above the mff ceilings, to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 with an additional eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures to manage the refugee and migration crisis and the allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. as one of the many positive measures put forward by the commission to deal with the refugee crisis, it deserves my approval and my vote in favour.
‒ the flexibility instrument is mobilised to provide eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis. in view of the crisis and the urgent need for measures to deal with the arrival of these thousands of refugees, we voted in favour.
‒ after examining all possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations under heading 3 of the 2015 budget, it became necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations, amounting to eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations, once again highlighting the need for the european union budget to be more flexible and larger. the commission then proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the mff ceilings in order to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 with an additional eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures to manage the refugee and migration crisis. the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017 are also proposed. we voted in favour of this mobilisation in order to speed up and accelerate this process so that the funds reach where they are needed.
‒ the union must practice internal and external solidarity in the refugee crisis. additional efforts are needed in the reception and further action for the stabilisation of countries of origin. the funds, programmes, instruments and agencies involved should be strengthened and better coordinated. i therefore agree to the increase in emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) to a total of eur 100 million; to the increase in the number of posts on the frontex, easo and europol establishment plans (120 in total) and the corresponding appropriations for salaries until the end of the year to eur 1.3 million in commitments and payments; to the additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument (totalling eur 300 million); to the increase in the humanitarian aid payment appropriations by eur 55.7 million and finally to the budgetary provision for immediate measures under the european agenda on migration to the amount of eur 66.1 million.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 7/2015 aims to increase the union's resources for managing the current migrant and refugee crisis, thus addressing the current funding shortfall in categories 3 and 4. in this regard, it provides for: an increase in emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) totalling eur 100 million in commitment appropriations, while maintaining the necessary resources, as well as other programmes financed under amif; an increase in the number of posts in the frontex, easo and europol establishment plans (120 in total), as well as the corresponding appropriations for salaries until the end of the year, amounting to eur 1.3 million in commitments and payments; additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument (eur 300 million); and an increase of eur 55.7 million in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid through reallocation. considering the need to provide a comprehensive response to the current migrant and refugee crisis, i voted in favour of this resolution, which endorses the council's position on draft amending budget no 7/2015.
‒ europe's humanitarian legacy is rooted in the principle of solidarity between peoples. the eu's assistance to migration must be based on technical and financial support capable of mitigating the negative effects of this wave of refugees, and the funds, programmes, instruments and agencies involved in these actions must be strengthened and better coordinated so that in the near future we can have a truly comprehensive and coherent european policy on asylum, refugees and migration. in this respect, i am in favour of the present commission proposal to increase emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) by a total of eur 100 million, and to increase the total staffing of frontex, the european asylum support office and europol by 120 staff, as well as to increase the payment appropriations for humanitarian aid by eur 55.7 million and to make available immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration by eur 66.1 million.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 7/2015 provides for an increase in the number of posts in the establishment plans of frontex, easo and europol (120 in total) and the corresponding appropriations for salaries until the end of the year, amounting to eur 1,3 million in commitments and payments. this is a positive element. however, because we do not agree with all aspects of european refugee policy and in particular the common european asylum system, we abstained in the vote on this amending budget. we also believe that the union should make greater efforts to manage the current migrant and refugee crisis and contribute to the stabilisation of the countries of origin by assisting the countries of transit, since the proposed measures will certainly not be sufficient, given the seriousness of the problem.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 7/2015 provides for an increase in the emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) totalling eur 100 million in commitment appropriations as well as in other programmes financed under the amif. it also provides for additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument (a total of eur 300 million) and an increase of eur 55.7 million in appropriations for payments for humanitarian aid by reallocation. this draft amending budget is accompanied by a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to provide immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration amounting to eur 66,1 million. unfortunately, it insists on the response by militarizing humanitarian aid, while also providing for an increase in the number of posts in the frontex, easo and europol agencies (120 in total). the report considers that the union should make more efforts in managing the current migrant and refugee crisis by 'contributing to the stabilisation of the countries of origin', and never refers to eu efforts to destabilise them.
‒ the hungarian prosecutor general has requested the waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament, béla kovács, in order to open an investigation into his suspected spying on the institutions of the european union. according to the information provided by the prosecutor general, the secret contacts of mr kovács with agents of the russian secret services were first detected in 2010 by the hungarian constitutional protection service in the framework of an investigation into the activities of certain foreign nationals. i agree with the lifting of béla kovács's immunity for the purpose of an inquiry into whether he is guilty of an accusation of espionage against the institutions of the european union.
‒ the prosecutor general of hungary has requested the waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament, béla kovács, in order to open an investigation, based on reasonable suspicion, to determine whether he is liable to be charged with espionage against the institutions of the european union pursuant to section 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the request for the waiver of immunity is the result of proceedings aimed at harming the member's political activity, has been found. in these terms, and on the basis of the report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of mr béla kovács.
‒ in the context of an investigation by the central investigation and criminal procedure department of hungary, the prosecutor general péter polt requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament béla kovács, on the basis of reasonable suspicion of espionage against the institutions of the european union. the result of the investigation shows that the contacts of the member of parliament kovács with agents of the russian secret services were first detected in 2010 by the hungarian service for the protection of the constitution. while it is true that, for legal purposes, the request for the waiver of immunity in this case is restricted to events occurring after 1 january 2014 and must be subject to the conditions set out in rule 9 (6) of the rules of procedure, i agree with the waiver of parliamentary immunity, in so far as it is limited to criminal proceedings and has no objective of prejudicing the political activity of mr béla kovács.
‒ the prosecutor-general of hungary has requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament béla kovács in order to open an investigation on the basis of reasonable suspicion, with a view to determining whether he is guilty of an accusation of espionage against the institutions of the european union. we have doubts about the nature and motives of this request by the hungarian authorities. that is why we abstained.
‒ the executive director and the deputy executive director are appointed by the eib, after approval by the european parliament, following an open and transparent selection process in line with the eib's procedures, and the efsi's own governing board has approved a proposal for the appointment of the executive director and the deputy executive director of the efsi, which it has forwarded to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held hearings with mr wilhelm molterer, proposed candidate for the post of executive director of the efsi, and ms iliyana tsanova, proposed candidate for the post of deputy executive director of the efsi. both candidates have demonstrated competence, extensive professional experience and an excellent knowledge of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the governing council of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) of 2 october 2015 concerning the appointment of its deputy executive director, as well as the joint deliberations of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs following the hearing of the proposed candidate for the appointment of the deputy executive director of the efsi, i voted in favour of the appointment of iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the efsi.
‒ the appointment of the executive director and deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments is made by the european investment bank, in accordance with criteria of rigor and transparency. having received a proposal from the efsi board of directors on 2 october 2015 and having carried out the selection process in an open and transparent manner, i agree to the appointment of iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the efsi, as she has demonstrated in the hearing in the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs that she has proven competence and professional experience to perform fully these functions.
in writing. - we have no objection in principle to the name proposed. we abstain because we disagree with this instrument and the operating rules associated with it. as it stands, this investment fund will help to widen the gap between richer and poorer regions even further. it is based on the principle of public-private partnerships which drain public resources and fatten the profits of large economic groups.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal of the governing council of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) of 2 october 2015 concerning the appointment of its executive director, as well as the joint deliberations of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs following the hearing of the proposed candidate for the appointment of the executive director, i voted in favour of the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as executive director of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the nomination of the executive director of the european fund for strategic investments, taking into account the nomination submitted by the efsi governing council on 2 october 2015 and the fact that the appointment of wilhelm molterer was based on an open and transparent selection process, in line with the procedures of the european investment bank.
in writing. - we have no objection in principle to the name proposed. we abstain because we disagree with this instrument and the operating rules associated with it. as it stands, this investment fund will help to widen the gap between richer and poorer regions even further. it is based on the principle of public-private partnerships which drain public resources and fatten the profits of large economic groups.
‒ climate change requires an urgent, responsible and global response based on solidarity from the international community. climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity for sustainable development, global health and the global economy. the european union and its member states are committed to jointly adhering to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. however, i believe that we must have more ambitious targets and the european parliament should advocate a reduction of greenhouse gases by 50% by 2030 compared to 1990 and increase the share of renewable energy to 45% of the energy mix, achieving 40% energy savings. i support the need for the paris agreement to be global, ambitious and legally binding in order to provide a long-term response to the challenges of climate change. the european union should also complete the ratification process of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol as soon as possible and encourage the other parties to do the same so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. i therefore support the report by mr gilles pargneaux.
‒ i also agree with the need to reach an ambitious and legally binding global agreement at the paris climate conference, calling for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of at least 40% by 2030, an increase in energy efficiency of 40% and renewable energy sources of 30%. a stable climate system is essential for food security, energy production, water and sanitation, infrastructure, as well as the preservation of biodiversity and terrestrial and marine ecosystems, peace and prosperity in the world. it recalls that climate change is accelerating the loss of biodiversity. it is noted that between 2008 and 2013, 166 million people were forced to leave their homes due to floods, storms, earthquakes or other disasters, adding that climate-related developments in some parts of africa may contribute to exacerbating the refugee crisis in the mediterranean.
‒ climate change is now an unavoidable reality and represents one of the main threats to the sustainable development of our planet. for this reason, the european union is committed to reaching an ambitious and legally binding global agreement, which includes concrete targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 (compared to 1990), increasing energy efficiency to 40% and increasing renewable energy sources to 30%. like the rapporteur, i stress the importance for the eu and its member states to complete the ratification process of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol by the end of this year, so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. finally, i stress the need for this international climate agreement to be binding, capable of responding to the challenges posed by climate change in the long term, so that we can contribute to a stable climate system that preserves the biodiversity of ecosystems and human health. in view of these considerations, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i think it is very important that the european parliament, which represents all the citizens of the european union, sends a clear message of urgency to cop21 in paris with regard to the intensification of global climate change. this report, by proposing a very significant increase in renewable energy and by setting out a roadmap for the states, makes an effective contribution to reducing climate change. however, in this statement i want to attach particular importance to the proposal to end subsidies to petroleum products. this option has a deeper content than simply ending a support. with this option we are, in fact, changing the paradigm, giving priority to environmentally friendly energy and putting an early end to passive dependence on fossil fuels. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ climate change poses an urgent and potentially irreversible global threat to human societies and the biosphere. according to the scientific data of 2014, there is no doubt about the warming of the climate system. human activities are the main cause of the observed warming since the middle of the 20th century. we note that the eu reduced emissions by 19% between 1990 and 2013 under the kyoto protocol, and increased its gdp by over 45%. unfortunately, between 1990 and 2013, global ghg emissions increased by more than 50%, with the global monthly average concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere exceeding the 400 parts per million threshold for the first time in march 2015. we therefore have the greatest doubts about the ability of emission trading systems to solve this problem, insofar as they treat equally companies with large developmental differences.
‒ the environmental problems facing humanity today are manifold and diverse, and are so serious that they threaten the very existence of life on earth as we know it. this resolution is intended to set out guidelines for the eu's mandate at cop 21 and, while we agree on some points, we strongly disagree on others. a consistent approach to climate change should focus, for example, on reducing dependence on fossil fuels. the world's major economic powers seem more interested in using climate as a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than in achieving real emission reduction targets, without necessarily challenging the current dominant economic and social organisation on a global scale, insisting on the main instrument proposed by the eu to contain climate change, which not only does not contribute to alleviating this dependence but is even an obstacle to the necessary energy paradigm shift. the difficulties and contradictions of these climate change conferences stem largely from the failure of the major industrial powers, including of course the eu, to understand the true and profound meaning of the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility', and not from a lack of diplomacy or a voice speaking for 28 sovereign countries.
we would like to draw your attention to a situation which we consider to be of the greatest gravity, and which has to do with the absurd interference of the services which you direct in the matter of the intervention of members, by limiting that intervention. i am talking about the situation with the written questions and the new interpretation given to it by the committee on constitutional affairs. the point is that the justifications which are being put forward by members - justifications of urgency - are being called into question by the services. it is important that we understand who is making this decision and on what basis they decide whether or not the justification for urgency put forward by a member is legitimate. we need to know who's making these decisions, and on what principles they're making them.
the committee on budgets madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and thanking him for the spirit of commitment he has shown in his collective work on this matter in the european parliament. later today, in the special committee on taxation, which was set up after the luxleaks scandal, we shall also vote on another report and we hope that the spirit of compromise will also prevail. it is a year since the luxleaks scandal and the problem of information exchange is just one of those that needs to be dealt with urgently and seriously, through a commitment not only within parliament but also in the form of an interinstitutional agreement, including the commission and also the council, so as to introduce into european culture a new approach to taxation. it is in this sense that i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on the number of initiatives that have already been brought to light by the debate, and i would ask the european commission not to give up this fight. it is essential that there should be a strong position of this parliament, which we are building. the european commission's strong position is essential. but there must also be a credible position on the part of the council. and in this respect i also agree with what my colleague mr ferber has just said about the disappointment of the ecofin council decisions of 6 october, not only with regard to the date of entry into force of the new procedures, but also at three other levels. firstly, it is unacceptable that the agreement on the exchange of information on hitherto secret agreements, which give preference to multinationals in tax matters, allows these to be adopted and exchanged between member states without assigning to the european commission the role it has to perform. the european commission must be the platform where this exchange of information takes place, so as to prevent what has been the outline of all the commitments between states that have existed so far from continuing to be the european norm. the european commission must be the platform for exchange. secondly, it is unacceptable that governments have limited this exchange of information to rulings issued in the last 5 years, when the european commission's proposal was 10 years old, as there are numerous agreements which are still in force and which therefore have to be made accessible to tax administrations, whatever the period in which they started or at least all those which are still in force are the subject of this exchange of information. finally, i would also like to mention the fact that all rulings, all exchanges, all agreements have to be transmitted, because in the internal market, advantages granted to a multinational in one member state automatically have an impact on the collectible in all other states. and so it makes no sense to limit the obligation to exchange information to exchanges between states when, in fact, the agreement ends up creating, in the internal market with free movement of capital, a risk of tax loss for all other states. in short, there is a new european agenda on this matter. parliament is working in good faith. the commission is working very hard and we want it to continue. but the council must act with loyalty and determination to correct the situation of fiscal injustice in europe and to restore the confidence of europeans, of the citizens, who are the taxpayers, in the seriousness of the work of the integrated project in which we all believe.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i come from a country where 19 out of 20 listed companies pay taxes in other countries. tax competition and laws to eliminate so-called double taxation generate a race to the bottom which will only end when taxation of capital gains is equal to zero. the legislation we are discussing here today does not solve this, but it could at least lead to minimum conditions of loyalty between member states and help governments and citizens to become aware of the scale and gravity of this phenomenon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used for the purposes of the taxation of profits. the tax abuse by multinationals results in a loss of tax revenue or taxes, estimated at between eur 50 and 70 billion. if we add other issues, such as the amount for tax avoidance and special agreements, this amount could be as high as 160 to 190 billion euros. this fraud results in an overburden of taxation on other national economic actors, in particular workers, in the non-fulfilment of corporate civic and social responsibility, while depriving sovereign states of key resources to implement their social policies, combat poverty and social inequality and promote economic development. all of this increases economic and social inequality. one of the main dimensions of transparency is the free access to information by the general public, and that is why i call on my colleagues to support the amendments we are putting forward to allow for civic and democratic scrutiny. as for the report by mrs scott cato, i fully support it.
mr president, i would like to make a preamble in french. juncker, as a minister in the luxembourg government, has entered into agreements with hundreds of multinationals, so as to channel profits into luxembourg territory, and this amounts to a theft of tax revenues from the other member states. so i'm sorry, i don't give a damn whether he's president of the commission or pope. he's a thief, and i don't trust him. sorry, i'm going to keep going in portuguese. madam president, following the tax scandals, the european institutions seem to be engaged in this battle against tax fraud and evasion. however, we must ensure that all the measures and proposals under way are not merely a legislative adornment, keeping everything the same. the council's proposal on the automatic exchange of information represents a clear setback. the regulation on the exchange of information with switzerland contains various conditions for its implementation. the work of the tax committee was always difficult. thirteen governments, including the netherlands, luxembourg and the united kingdom, have denied access to the code of conduct group documents. as reserves in making public information are a constant; there are signs that our uprising has undermined the real political will to attack the problem. for our part, we will continue to be attentive and vigilant. (the president accepted the request to reply to a question under the 'cartão azul' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i didn't hear the first part of the question. however, i must say that these scandals do not only affect the president of the commission, they affect the president of the eurogroup, they affect the main parties in this house, which have supported all the governments which have for years and years practised tax agreements designed to make life easier for multinationals and to offer them generous tax benefits. this is therefore a serious blow to the credibility of the european institutions and to the economic system itself, in which the private interests of the large multinationals are systematically overridden by political power. that is what is at stake today, and it is becoming clearer every day.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current rules on package holidays are obsolete in the face of the changing paradigm in the travel market and the new realities of the digital age, where consumers increasingly book personalised trips over the internet, either from one operator or from several operators linked commercially. european consumers are thus less protected because the existing rules were designed for traditional package tours, where everything was pre-arranged by the travel agency. now, for us, consumers must be at the centre of the internal market. the scattered legislation of some member states to fill this legal void and the wide margin of manoeuvre that has been given to the transposition of the directive are also not a solution. there is a fragmentation of the internal market, there is a need for harmonisation and that is why it was so important to amend the package travel directive. the commission, parliament and the council were right to agree to modernise this important sector of the european economy. a word of praise for the work done by my colleague, birgit collin-langen, as rapporteur, which has enabled the european parliament and the council to reach agreement on this dossier, striking the necessary balance between a high level of consumer protection and the protection of a free, borderless area for the movement of goods and services and the freedom of establishment.
mr president, the fight against torture and the death penalty is a decisive battle for the european union and humanist culture, and it must be fought on all fronts, including the european union's trade policy. it is our duty not only to ensure that the marketing of products intended for torture and execution is effectively prohibited, but also to control so-called dual-use products which can be misused, either for torture or for execution. this proposal for a regulation is a positive initiative which deserves the clear and constructive political support of the european parliament. updating the lists of products subject to special authorization, creating a general export authorization for countries that respect international commitments, but also creating a general clause making the authorization dependent on the absence of reasonable grounds to suspect that these goods are being misused, would be important steps and a good opportunity for a trade policy that is more faithful to the european commitment to human rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been a pioneer in introducing rules aimed at preventing and eradicating torture and ill-treatment, and in abolishing the death penalty worldwide. in this respect, i am pleased that portugal was the second european nation to abolish capital punishment in 1867. the european union is now strengthening the legal framework it already has, by expanding and updating the list of prohibited products and technologies, to prevent our companies from promoting, brokering and providing technical training in the use of devices and technologies for torture, execution or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i hope that this effort will make a real contribution to the abolition of the death penalty in the countries which still apply it and to the reduction of torture practices throughout the world, particularly in relation to the violation of human rights and freedom of expression. and because this is a forum of citizenship par excellence, i end by urging the angolan government to immediately and unconditionally release luaty beirão and the other human rights activists who are illegally detained in angola. freedom now!
mr president, they wanted to adorn the lisbon treaty with this flowery democratic symbol, they wanted to give it the appearance of what it is not: something that is in accordance with democracy, with the will and participation of the people. the so-called european citizens' initiative was from the outset a puerile but also perverse attempt to legitimise an entire building which is profoundly and structurally undemocratic. let us not forget that the treaty which enshrined this initiative ostensibly escaped the scrutiny of the people through referendums, and was approved and ratified behind the backs of the citizens whose participation it says it wants to welcome. six years later, it is clear how much this instrument, known as participatory democracy, has been discredited. over half a hundred attempts, and only three managed to meet the rigid parameters to fit what they defined as citizen participation. even these are in the commission's drawer, for who knows how long, like the public water initiative.
mr president, looking for lessons from the ebola crisis, it is important that this report acknowledges that the imf and world bank programmes have devastated the fragile health infrastructure in the affected countries, devastated public health services, and more, creating a situation of inability to cope with the progression of the epidemic. it is necessary to reverse this course, to repair the damage, to break with this submission; to support the construction of universal, free public health systems, the training of specialised health personnel; to combat the hegemony of pharmaceutical companies in the development of new medicines, the dictatorship of patents; to support the development of essential public services, such as water and sanitation; to cancel the external debt of these countries and, if it is time to welcome and thank all the international aid that is still needed, it is worth recalling here the giant example of a small country, cuba, which alone has sent more doctors and nurses than all the other western countries.
the situation of farmers in the european union is tragic. although it was approved by a majority of this parliament, it is widely acknowledged that successive revisions of the common agricultural policy have created a permanent crisis for producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. the proposed solution of using financial derivatives to secure farmers' incomes speaks volumes about the complete disengagement of policy makers from the challenges facing our agriculture. at a time when thousands of bankruptcies are looming across europe, it is absolutely vital that we stop this process of liberalising our agriculture and promoting big agribusiness, both internally and in the framework of international trade treaties that are being forged. it is urgent to stop and act in defence of our agriculture and, in particular, of our small and mediumsized family farms, the only ones able to guarantee sustainable production, close to home and in which consumers can have confidence.
mr president, i do not in any way wish to minimize the efforts made by the rapporteur in this negotiation, but no, it is not true, we have not achieved the objectives we have set ourselves since we started this process. this is not the same version as the one that was voted on earlier, it is not the same version that was announced to the european citizens during the european elections, in which the end of roaming was announced on the one hand and the neutrality of the internet on the other. the end of roaming has been announced and now we have a promise for 2017. i hope that this promise will not be as failed as the one made in 2014 during the election campaign. the net neutrality was announced, but what we got is an ambiguous agreement and no rights guaranteed with ambiguities. we have all received emails from many european citizens concerned about ensuring net neutrality. the internet, although new in historical terms, is already a heritage of humanity. even before unesco has declared it, which it will undoubtedly do sooner or later. so we can say that attacks on the free, universal and neutral internet are attacks on the common heritage of humanity. they're kind of like the attacks on palmyra, but in a modern version, and that's why all fundamentalisms become so similar. the fact is that the fanatics of the market and the privatization of the commons are also the destroyers of the economy and of developed societies. we therefore tabled amendments to this house to clarify the regulation and ensure that net neutrality is indeed a guarantee for the whole of the european union. trafficking must be treated equally, without discrimination, without restriction, without interference. we should go back to the 2011 proposal. it is the most basic of the basic principles and commitments to citizens. there should be no compromise in this house other than the commitment to the citizens.
mr president, we have seen inflamed professions of faith in the liberalization of various sectors of economic activity before. the truth is that the single market in electronic communications, as life and practice have shown in other sectors of activity, is tailor-made for the great powers and their monopolies. they lose the workers, they lose the consumers, who never see the wonderful promises come true. monopolistic concentration is on the rise, private appropriation of public goods, such as spectrum or the internet, is on the rise, and the neutrality of these is being jeopardized to satisfy the business perspective of some of the giants of the industry. even the one that is touted as the great benefit of this regulation, the end of roaming charges, in the realm of the multinational domain, is not without potential harmful effects. only a few weeks ago, the chairman of the body which brings together the 28 national regulatory bodies in the telecommunications sector said that the southern countries would be disadvantaged by the dominant tourist flows in europe. it will be the non-roaming populations of these countries who will have to bear the costs associated with the elimination of roaming charges through an increase in their own charges. we still have no convincing response to these alerts.
the digital single market for electronic communications regulation is an essential pillar for the achievement of the digital union. the regulation adopted is the result of a compromise between the european parliament and the council. it is true that more could have been done on some points, in particular on consolidating the concept of net neutrality, but the agreement reached is a synthesis that allows future work to continue in the right direction. i note that this agreement will allow for the reduction of roaming charges from 30 april 2016 and the abolition of these charges on 15 june 2017. the agreement also guarantees open access to the internet and prohibits the practice of paying for priority access to the network. the role of national regulators in ensuring the application of the regulation is also strengthened. for these reasons, it is a positive regulation, but one which must be monitored at all times, both to ensure its effective application and to introduce improvements and corrections arising from the experience of its application.
mr president, at the recent meetings of the council of the european union and the european council, the mask of solidarity has been removed once and for all. the conclusions of this meeting, all of them, are in practice a guide on how to expel migrants from the european union more and more effectively. it is said with all the words that the force of the example of repression should work against the undesirables, but the icing on the cake is when it is said that all measures should be taken to ensure the effective return of irregular migrants, including detention as a legitimate measure of last resort that is, treat migrants the same way as you treat criminals. this is precisely what the un has been criticising in the czech republic, and it is not clear how the council differs from these measures. we also do not know what is happening with the military mission eunavfor med, but there are reports of migrants whose boats have been attacked by military forces and the migrants have been attacked. we need urgent clarification of the role of these military missions to know exactly what is happening on the ground.
mr president, with regard to the council conclusions and, in particular, this summit which has just taken place this weekend with the countries mainly linked to the balkans and to the reception of refugees, i would like to make two principles clear. the first is that this is a european responsibility, and this is how all the countries of the european union should view this issue, which means that we all have an obligation to take in refugees and we all have an obligation to participate in the financial effort to help the countries from which refugees come, as well as the countries that are the frontier that receive the impact of the first refugees. but it is also true, and this is the second principle, that this solidarity must be done with discretion: we must not confuse migrants with refugees, and that is why we must carry out this sorting and screening, precisely in the reception camps and in the hotspots, and we must work with the countries that are on the front line, whether they are members of the european union or not. so this is a responsibility that we have and that we must also leave to all the countries of the european union. i would also like to say that from our point of view it is absolutely essential that we also do some prevention work, particularly in sub-saharan africa. in addition to the hot spots that are the most urgently needed today, we will have very strong movements in sub-saharan africa in the long run.
mr president, first of all, let us stop the nonsense about the ‘coup d’état’ in portugal. i noted that mr weber said that he was concerned about the prospect of a fully democratically-based left coalition in my country as a result of the elections. apparently he does not worry about the prospect of a xenophobic, anti-european extreme right wing government in poland. at least in portugal we are ready to receive refugees. that has been stated by all the authorities and entities involved in the reception. but the fact is that the relocation process is not working at european level. they are not coming. i hope that at least the valletta summit will be an opportunity for our leaders to realise what they have been told here in this parliament, namely that, without opening safe and legal avenues for refugees and migrants, they will continue to feed business into the criminal gangs. without working strategically to end the conflicts in syria and libya and to defeat the terrorists of isis in iraq and turkey, the eu will not be addressing the root causes of why refugees have to flee, and they will keep coming. this is not a refugee crisis. it is a truly european crisis because we are failing in our duties to protect those in need. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. other in the face of the humanitarian tragedy of the refugee crisis, in the face of the hundreds of thousands of people fleeing chaos and war in their countries - chaos and war - it is not too much to remind you, for which the eu has direct responsibilities, of the actions of destabilisation and aggression which it has supported and in which it has participated. the eu had already decided that the solution was to build the walls of 'fortress europe' higher. now the european council decides to add barbed wire to these walls. the european council conclusions reveal, in all their cruelty, the inhumanity of eu policies: to expel more migrants and to do so more effectively. this is the summary of the guidelines decreed by those who equate migrants with criminals. at the same time, the refugee crisis is being used as a pretext to push for further steps in the deepening of federalism, seeking to cement the role, expand the powers and functions of eu agencies in the areas of justice, police and border management. new concerns about the safeguarding of rights, freedoms and guarantees. these conclusions also open the door to the introduction of a kind of conditionality in development cooperation policy, a blatant blackmail, which seeks to subject its recipients to acceptance of the guidelines of the eu's inhumane migration policy.
the european union is going through a social crisis, a crisis of values, which implies a strengthening of solidarity between member states with a view to solving the serious humanitarian crisis we are experiencing. member states should act more quickly and expeditiously to provide the european institutions with concrete funding and support mechanisms to help refugees arriving in europe as quickly as possible. this type of support can be at the level of support infrastructures, at the level of registration points or at the level of the redirection of migrants to other countries. the western balkan countries as well as several countries in southern europe or central europe have tried to solve the migration problem unilaterally, understanding that it is time for everyone to cooperate with each other and develop mechanisms for mutual help and support.
‒ certain legislative acts adopted in recent decades are no longer relevant today, either because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. union legislation should therefore be updated and reduced by deleting acts that are no longer applied in order to improve transparency and legal certainty. the aim of this report is to amend the addition of a reference to article 114 tfeu which 'is intended to ensure consistency with the dual legal basis (agricultural policy and internal market policy) used for the adoption of directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats'. i voted in favour.
‒ this proposal is intended to object to council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and to council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, since some of the legal acts adopted in recent decades have become irrelevant, either because their content has been adopted by other subsequent legal acts or because some of them are temporary. following the interinstitutional agreement on simplifying and improving eu legislation, this legislation should be updated and condensed, removing legal acts that are no longer applicable, in order to improve transparency and trust. the commission proposal does not give it the power to declare legal acts adopted by the council obsolete. the acts listed in the commission proposal should therefore be repealed by a decision of the european parliament. those delegated acts have become obsolete since the content of council directive 76/621/eec has been repealed by regulation 1881/2006 and regulation 320/2006 only establishes a temporary scheme which is no longer applicable. the proposal is not problematic and we voted in favour of it.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the repeal of obsolete acts in the framework of the common agricultural policy. the commission proposal aims to repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, which no longer have any effect and remain only technically in force. the need for legal certainty and security requires that obsolete acts be repealed. the commission also proposes to add article 114 tfeu to the legal basis for the approximation of the laws on the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the common agricultural policy, council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establish a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, which have exhausted their legal effects and no longer correspond to the original purposes for which they were created. the elimination of obsolete acts is an element of the 'better lawmaking' strategy put in place by the european institutions, and there is no justification for keeping these acts in the current legislative order. the content of directive 76/621/eec is reproduced in commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 setting maximum levels for certain contaminants in foodstuffs, and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 would only apply under a temporary scheme of restructuring of the sugar industry, ending in the 2009/2010 marketing year. i am in favour of this proposal, since it must safeguard legal certainty and transparency by repealing obsolete acts which are only formally in force.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the idea that diplomas which have ceased to have effect should be revoked.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position adopted at first reading on 27 october 2015 with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec setting the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. this is a highly technical proposal which aims to bring greater legislative transparency and clarity by repealing the diplomas which have become obsolete, as in the case of the common agricultural policy.
‒ this procedure is important for legal clarity and without going beyond what is necessary and strictly agreed in terms of the current common agricultural policy 2014-2020.
‒ following the interinstitutional agreement on simplifying and improving eu law, legislation should be updated and condensed, removing legal acts that are no longer applicable, in order to improve transparency and trust. the commission proposal does not allow the commission to declare legal acts adopted by the council obsolete. the acts listed in the commission proposal should therefore be repealed by a decision of the european parliament, in this case the delegated acts setting the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and those establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry.
‒ the proposal is aimed at objecting to council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and to council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, since some of the legal acts adopted in recent decades have become irrelevant, either because their content has been adopted by other subsequent legal acts or because of their temporary nature. the commission proposal does not allow the commission to declare legal acts adopted by the council obsolete. the acts listed in the commission proposal should therefore be repealed by a decision of the european parliament, in this case the delegated acts setting the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and those establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. these have become obsolete as the content of council directive 76/621/eec has been repealed by regulation 1881/2006 and regulation 320/2006 only establishes a temporary scheme which is no longer applicable. we voted yes.
‒ on 27 may 2015, the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this is important progress in the context of the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and evasion. from 2018, the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. it also contains provisions to limit the possibilities for taxpayers to avoid disclosure of their information to the tax authorities by transferring assets or investing in products that fall outside the scope of the agreement. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2004, the council decided to conclude the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation to ensure that the latter adopts measures equivalent to those to be applied in the eu to ensure effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest (directive 2003/48/ec). the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 27 may 2015, which aims to improve international tax cooperation, represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement. however, there are several limitations to this proposal: the lack of a requirement for full and detailed information on account holders, in line with the effort to achieve full transparency and full disclosure of information as a mandatory requirement; the fact that the original deadline for the automatic exchange of information is inadequate, requiring the reporting cycle to be tightened from an annual basis to a quarterly basis; the existence of an exemption from disclosure, which is too broad and ambiguous. the agreement, the content of which the european parliament cannot alter, is thus clearly not up to the task. that is why we abstained.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-switzerland agreement to improve tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations with a view to the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. it is very important that effective measures are taken against tax fraud and tax evasion and, in this case, against practices by natural or legal persons established in the union with the participation of financial institutions in third countries. the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance requires not only a community approach, involving national efforts at eu level but also at world level, in which the european parliament plays a key role.
‒ i voted in favour because i consider it crucial to ensure compliance with the rules on the automatic exchange of information to improve compliance with international tax obligations.
‒ on 27 may, the european union and the swiss confederation signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the aim of the agreement is to improve tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations, while at the same time combating tax fraud and tax evasion. as provided for in this agreement, the european union and the swiss confederation will exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party as from 2018, as well as on income, interest and dividends, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets by taxpayers. given that this agreement, on which the european parliament was consulted, is intended to prevent situations in which a taxpayer tries to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid, i voted in favour, as such measures will contribute to the strengthening of tax cooperation and transparency, and thus to greater social justice.
‒ the regulation on the exchange of information with switzerland contains a number of subterfuge to its enforcement. unfortunately, it is not possible to change the regulations. we are therefore going to adopt a report which is already out of date in the face of the commitments made and the fact that the automatic exchange of information, which was introduced more than thirty years ago, is not working precisely because of regulations like this.
‒ in 2004, the council decided to conclude the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation to ensure that the latter adopts measures equivalent to directive 2003/48/ec) to be applied in the eu to ensure effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest. the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 27 may 2015, which aims to improve international tax cooperation, represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. we disagree with the fact that the european parliament cannot propose improvements to this agreement, which is because the european parliament was only heard after ratification of the agreement. we abstained.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, the savings taxation directive was adopted as a measure to ensure that taxes on savings are paid in the form of interest. following the 2008 evaluation, the commission proposed a review to address certain gaps, which was definitively adopted in 2014 and should apply from 1 january 2016. however, the 2011 administrative cooperation directive was revised, aligned with the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information for tax purposes and adopted in 2014. it should also apply from 1 january 2016. the commission proposed, in its tax transparency package of march 2015, the repeal of the 2003 savings tax directive, so that member states do not have to apply the provisions of both directives and can thus avoid the difficulties caused by dual information collection and reporting systems. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ directive 2003/48/ec is on taxation of savings income in the form of interest generated by credits and was implemented with the aim of ensuring the payment of taxes on savings in the form of interest. that directive will be repealed so that member states do not have to apply the provisions of the 2003 and 2011 directives (relating to taxation of savings and administrative cooperation respectively) and can avoid the difficulties caused by dual reporting systems. this report proposes that the european commission draw up a report on the results of the repeal. it also proposes that the european commission submit legislative proposals to ensure that any gaps that may exist are closed. it also regrets that no specific cost-benefit analysis of a dual communication system or of a transition period between the two standards has been carried out. i'm not objecting.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive repealing council directive 2003/48/ec. based on the principles of legal certainty and security, it is essential that member states do not have to apply the provisions of both directives, avoiding the difficulties caused by the application of dual systems.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 27 may 2015, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations, represents a significant step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. this agreement provides that the european union and switzerland will exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party as from 2018. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the proposed amendments, in particular the mandatory disclosure of the full name and identification number; the frequency of automatic exchange of information should be changed; the obligation to seek authorisation to use information exchanged with a third jurisdiction should be abolished; the payment of dividends, interest and royalties between companies and the amendment and termination of the agreement should be abolished. i consider it important that the deadlines set for the entry into force of the agreement on 1 january 2017 are met. for advocating greater transparency and sharing of tax information with the aim of reducing tax fraud and evasion, this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the proposed amendments will ensure that parliament has a role to play in reducing any loss of tax revenue for member states across the union.
‒ in order to avoid distortions in capital movements and to allow effective taxation of interest payments made by paying agents established in the territory of one member state (em) to natural persons resident in another em, the council adopted in 2003 a directive on the taxation of savings in the form of interest. it should be stressed that this legislation applies to a number of separate bilateral agreements between eu member states and overseas territories, as well as between the eu and five third countries. this scheme facilitated the taxation of this type of interest payment by requiring the automatic exchange of information. with the entry into force of council directive 2014/107/eu amending the directive on administrative cooperation in order to provide member states with a european legal basis for the automatic exchange of information covering all types of financial products, provisions were introduced which take precedence over those of the savings tax directive. in this connection, having been asked to give its opinion and having supported the commission's proposal that we are dealing with a case of overlapping of two directives, i voted in favour of this proposal which supports the repeal of directive 2003/48/ec.
in writing. ‒ directive 2003/48/ec is on taxation of savings income in the form of interest generated by credits and was implemented with the aim of ensuring the payment of taxes on savings in the form of interest. the directive will be repealed so that member states do not have to apply the provisions of the 2003 and 2011 directives (on taxation of savings and administrative cooperation respectively) and can avoid the difficulties caused by dual reporting systems.
in writing. ‒ directive 2003/48/ec is on taxation of savings income in the form of interest generated by credits and was implemented with the aim of ensuring the payment of taxes on savings in the form of interest. that directive will be repealed so that member states do not have to apply the provisions of the 2003 and 2011 directives (relating to taxation of savings and administrative cooperation respectively) and can avoid the difficulties caused by dual reporting systems. the european parliament's report proposes that the european commission draw up a report on the results of the repeal and make legislative proposals to ensure that any gaps that may exist are filled. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. we voted yes.
‒ decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation substantially incorporates the prüm treaty into the community legal order, while maintaining the objective of encouraging greater cooperation between the security forces of the member states, in particular through greater exchange of information. as i have said on several occasions, this exchange of information is essential in the field of security, as is the requirement for a result of greater mutual trust. certain requirements must therefore be met, in particular the principles of necessity and proportionality and respect for fundamental rights. therefore, in order to allow for the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, each member state should ensure that data protection standards are implemented. this council decision rightly authorises the start of the automated exchange, as sweden has successfully implemented it.
‒ the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime, is one of the most important issues in preventing terrorist acts against citizens of the european union. the exchange of information between countries is a crucial factor in minimizing these attacks. however, data sharing should be done in line with and with the agreement of the different countries. in the present report, these aspects are duly safeguarded and therefore deserve my approval.
in writing. ‒ according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation in combating terrorism and crime, the provision of personal data cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law in the territory of the member states concerned. the council's proposals are designed to authorise poland, belgium and sweden to receive and supply personal data in accordance with the abovementioned decision. these three reports relate to the prüm convention, which was signed in may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states: austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. it has been criticised for being negotiated and adopted in a very opaque way and without being subject to effective democratic control. the purpose of the prüm decision is to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities, for example by making it possible to compare a given dna profile with profiles recorded in automated databases in the member states. our vote is inseparable from our more general consideration of the fight against terrorism and the role the eu is playing in this.
‒ with a view to deepening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, i have tabled my vote in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange system in sweden. cross-border comparison of data reflects a new dimension in the fight against crime. the information obtained through the comparison plays a crucial role in supporting the judicial and law enforcement authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the effective fight against terrorism and crossborder crime depends on efficient and close cooperation between member states. the transfer of personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha may only take place when the general provisions on data protection laid down in chapter 6 of that decision have been incorporated into the national legislation of the territory of the member states participating in that transfer. the verification of compliance with this condition for automated data exchange should be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report, which in turn is based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. given that sweden has fulfilled the requirements of decision 2008/615/jha and has successfully completed a pilot run with austria, this report deserves my vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the idea that cooperation and the exchange of information are decisive factors in strengthening the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
‒ this legislative resolution aims to launch the automated exchange of fingerprint data with sweden. under existing agreements aiming at enhancing cross-border cooperation, in particular the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, the supply of personal data may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law in the territory of the member states participating in such transfers. given that sweden fulfilled the criteria for the exchange of dactyloscopic data and that the pilot run with austria was successful, the council's overall assessment concluded that austria fully complied with the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha, and i therefore considered that there were no grounds for not approving this report, which is highly technical, by monika flašíková beňová, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in december 2008, the european commission presented a proposal for the creation of the 'eurodac' fingerprint comparison system for the effective application of the dublin convention. this proposal is currently part of the 'asylum' package. eurodac is a common personal data processing system, which has been in use since 15 january 2003 and includes an automatic fingerprint recognition system. the purpose of this processing is to determine which member state is responsible under the dublin convention for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the eu states. this draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange system is part of this logic.
in writing. ‒ according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation and the fight against terrorism and crime, the provision of personal data provided for under that decision cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law. the council proposal aims to authorise sweden to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of entry into force of that decision. these three reports relate to the prüm convention, which was signed on 27 may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states - austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. the purpose of the prüm decision is thus to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities, by contributing to this by making it possible, for example, to compare a given dna profile with the profiles recorded in automated databases existing in the member states. we know that under the pretext of fighting terrorism and crime, the eu has been setting up a surveillance system that restricts the freedoms and guarantees of individuals. this measure follows a similar logic to the one we voted against.
in writing. ‒ decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation substantially incorporates the prüm treaty into the community legal order, while maintaining the objective of encouraging greater cooperation between member states' security forces, in particular through greater exchange of information. as i have said on several occasions, this exchange of information is essential in the field of security, as is the requirement for a result of greater mutual trust. certain requirements must therefore be met, in particular the principles of necessity and proportionality and respect for fundamental rights. therefore, in order to allow for the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, each member state should ensure that data protection standards are implemented. this council decision rightly authorises the start of the automated exchange, since belgium has successfully implemented it.
‒ the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime, is one of the most important issues in preventing terrorist acts against citizens of the european union. the exchange of information between countries is a crucial factor in minimizing these attacks. however, data sharing should be done in line with and with the agreement of the different countries. in the present report, these aspects are duly safeguarded and therefore deserve my approval.
in writing. ‒ according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation in combating terrorism and crime, the provision of personal data cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law in the territory of the member states concerned. the council's proposals are designed to authorise poland, belgium and sweden to receive and supply personal data in accordance with the abovementioned decision. these three reports relate to the prüm convention, which was signed in may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states: austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. it has been criticised for being negotiated and adopted in a very opaque way and without being subject to effective democratic control. the purpose of the prüm decision is to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities, for example by making it possible to compare a given dna profile with profiles recorded in automated databases in the member states. our vote is inseparable from our more general consideration of the fight against terrorism and the role the eu is playing in this.
‒ with a view to deepening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, i have tabled my vote in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange system in belgium. cross-border comparison of data reflects a new dimension in the fight against crime. the information obtained by comparing data plays a crucial role in supporting the judicial and law enforcement authorities of the member states.
‒ i believe that the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime depends on efficient and close cooperation between member states. the transfer of personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha may only take place when the general provisions on data protection laid down in chapter 6 of that decision have been incorporated into the national legislation of the territory of the member states participating in that transfer. the verification of compliance with this condition for automated data exchange should be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report, which in turn is based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. given that belgium has fulfilled the requirements of decision 2008/615/jha and has successfully conducted a pilot run with france and luxembourg, this report deserves my vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the idea that cooperation and the exchange of information are decisive factors in strengthening the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of resolutions on the future of the european union, including the european council resolution of 17 december 2006 on the future of the european union and the european council resolution of 17 december 2006 on the future of the european union. like the report on sweden and poland on the same subject, belgium has been found to have responded positively to the questionnaires on data protection and on the exchange of datalink data, and has also successfully completed the pilot experiment with france and luxembourg on this exchange, so there are no reasons why this report, which is of an eminently technical nature, should not be adopted, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in december 2008, the european commission presented a proposal for the creation of the 'eurodac' fingerprint comparison system for the effective application of the dublin convention. this proposal is currently part of the 'asylum' package. eurodac is a common personal data processing system, which has been in use since 15 january 2003 and includes an automatic fingerprint recognition system. the purpose of this processing is to determine which member state is responsible under the dublin convention for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the eu states. this draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange system is part of this logic.
in writing. ‒ according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation and the fight against terrorism and crime, the provision of personal data provided for under that decision cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law. the council proposal aims to authorise belgium to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of entry into force of that decision. these three reports relate to the prüm convention, which was signed on 27 may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states - austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. the purpose of the prüm decision is thus to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities, by contributing to this by making it possible, for example, to compare a given dna profile with the profiles recorded in automated databases existing in the member states. we know that under the pretext of fighting terrorism and crime, the eu has been setting up a surveillance system that restricts the freedoms and guarantees of individuals. this measure follows a similar logic to the one we voted against.
‒ decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation substantially incorporates the prüm treaty into the community legal order, while maintaining the objective of encouraging greater cooperation between the security forces of the member states, in particular through greater exchange of information. as i have said on several occasions, this exchange of information is essential in the field of security, as is the requirement for a result of greater mutual trust. certain requirements must therefore be met, in particular the principles of necessity and proportionality and respect for fundamental rights. therefore, in order to allow for the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, each member state should ensure that data protection standards are implemented. this council decision rightly authorises the start of the automated exchange, since poland has successfully implemented it.
‒ the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime, is one of the most important issues in preventing terrorist acts against citizens of the european union. the exchange of information between countries is a crucial factor in minimizing these attacks. however, data sharing should be done in line with and with the agreement of the different countries. in the present report, these aspects are duly safeguarded and therefore deserve my approval.
in writing. ‒ according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation in combating terrorism and crime, the provision of personal data cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law in the territory of the member states concerned. the council's proposals are designed to authorise poland, belgium and sweden to receive and supply personal data in accordance with the abovementioned decision. these three reports relate to the prüm convention, which was signed in may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states: austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. it has been criticised for being negotiated and adopted in a very opaque way and without being subject to effective democratic control. the purpose of the prüm decision is to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities, for example by making it possible to compare a given dna profile with profiles recorded in automated databases in the member states. our vote is inseparable from our more general consideration of the fight against terrorism and the role the eu is playing in this.
‒ with a view to deepening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, i have tabled my vote in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange in poland. cross-border comparison of data reflects a new dimension in the fight against crime. the information obtained by comparing data plays a crucial role in supporting the judicial and law enforcement authorities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the effective fight against terrorism and crossborder crime depends on efficient and close cooperation between member states. the transfer of personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha may only take place when the general provisions on data protection laid down in chapter 6 of that decision have been incorporated into the national legislation of the territory of the member states participating in that transfer. the verification of compliance with this condition for automated data exchange should be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report, which in turn is based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. given that poland has fulfilled the requirements of decision 2008/615/jha and has successfully conducted a pilot run with austria, this report deserves my vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the idea that cooperation and the exchange of information are decisive factors in strengthening the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
‒ this legislative resolution aims to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data (digital impressions) with poland, with a view to authorising that country to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha. the main objective of this measure is to deepen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. following the council's assessment and the similarity of the other two reports on this same issue (concerning sweden and belgium), it was found that poland fulfils the necessary criteria to operate the exchange of dactyloscopic data, as it also complies with the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha and has successfully completed the pilot experiment with austria on this matter (as well as sweden), so i gave my vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in december 2008, the european commission presented a proposal for the creation of the 'eurodac' fingerprint comparison system for the effective application of the dublin convention. this proposal is currently part of the 'asylum' package. eurodac is a common personal data processing system, which has been in use since 15 january 2003 and includes an automatic fingerprint recognition system. the purpose of this processing is to determine which member state is responsible under the dublin convention for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the eu states. this draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange system is part of this logic.
in writing. ‒ according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation and the fight against terrorism and crime, the provision of personal data provided for under that decision cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law. the council's proposal is to authorise poland to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of entry into force of that decision. these three reports relate to the prüm convention, which was signed on 27 may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states - austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. the purpose of the prüm decision is thus to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities, by contributing to this by making it possible, for example, to compare a given dna profile with the profiles recorded in automated databases existing in the member states. we know that under the pretext of fighting terrorism and crime, the eu has been setting up a surveillance system that restricts the freedoms and guarantees of individuals. this measure follows a similar logic to the one we voted against.
‒ the current rules governing package holidays are clearly outdated in the face of the new realities of the digital age and the changing paradigm in the travel market. european consumers were less protected, as existing standards either did not provide for these situations or covered them in a vague way, as they were designed only for traditional package travel. the current status quo of non-application to online travel and the fragmented legislation of the member states to regulate it creates uncertainty for consumers about their rights, as well as uncertainty for operators about their responsibilities and fragmentation of the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. consumers must be at the centre of the internal market, and greater transparency and increased consumer protection are now recognised on the one hand, and the desired harmonisation that provides fairness for businesses on the other.
‒ the package travel directive dates back to 1990 and is drawn up taking into account the fact that the vast majority of europeans book their holidays through travel agencies rather than the internet. it was important to update the directive to adapt it to the digital age and to strengthen consumer rights, such as the right to terminate the contract if the price increase exceeds 8%, to be repatriated if the tour operator goes bankrupt and to receive assistance if something goes wrong during the holiday. personalised travel is not covered by the rules in force or is ambiguously covered, leaving consumers unsure of their rights and operators unsure of their exact obligations. this update means that an additional 120 million consumers who buy these personalised travel packages will also be protected, according to european commission data.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed directive should be amended to include the following elements: the european commission proposes that the operator be allowed to increase the price in line with fuel costs, taxes and exchange rate fluctuations, which clearly puts the consumer in a vulnerable position. in addition, the organiser/retailer is obliged to provide protection in the event of insolvency in order to guarantee the repatriation of travellers and the reimbursement of payments made. however, this obligation only applies to package travel organisers and retailers offering the purchase of combined travel services. the proposal does, however, solve some of the existing problems, since the directive is outdated, given the emergence of digital operators, which creates disadvantageous conditions for many smes in the sector. that is why, even if this proposal is not entirely positive, in its current form, which deserves the agreement of the council and the european commission, we voted against the proposal of the efdd group to reject, outright, the amendment of the directive, which would make it impossible to improve the current situation.
‒ the european parliament has approved the revision of the package travel directive (created in 1990). this legislative update is of great relevance in an increasingly digital age, where consumers book more and more trips online. it is essential that there is a stronger enforcement and monitoring of consumer rights in balance with the protection of freedom of movement.
in writing. the revision of the 1990 directive on package travel and related travel services was adopted today. this recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading adapts this directive to the digital age and the fact that 60% of consumers book and buy their holidays online. travellers using the internet will now be more protected in their contract and should also have an emergency telephone number or a point of contact with the organiser or travel agency. the strengthening of their consumer rights also covers issues of receiving assistance if something goes wrong during the holiday, being repatriated in the event of the tour operator's bankruptcy and terminating the contract if the price increase is more than 8%. i voted in favour of this proposal, which member states must transpose into national law within two years, with the new rules coming into force six months later.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is important to harmonise the rights and obligations arising from package travel contracts and related travel services in order to create a genuine internal market for consumers in this field.
‒ tourism and, more specifically, travel, including the related sectors, accounts for around 10% of the eu's gross domestic product. the adoption in 1990 of directive 90/314/eec on package holidays recognised the importance of the rights of european travellers when they purchased package holidays, typically consisting of transport and accommodation. however, we are in 2015 - the digital age and with a different and much more complex transport market structure than in 1990, when the internet practically did not exist. with the widespread use of air travel and the liberalisation of air transport, it has become essential to revise the directive, giving greater clarity and breadth to its content and scope, as well as greater protection for european consumers in respect of this segment of package travel and related travel services. in concrete terms, i stress the need for measures to adapt to the digital age, for assistance and repatriation rights in the event of bankruptcy, for the termination of contracts in the event of an unjustified price increase, and i therefore support this report which, in addition to supporting an urgent revision of the directive, also promotes the harmonisation of the internal market in regulatory terms and ensures the defence and protection of consumers and businesses.
‒ the aim is to ensure that the traveller, when purchasing linked travel services, is protected in the event of the insolvency of the operator providing the linked travel service. the traveller will therefore have the right to be repatriated if the insolvency of the operator responsible for the carriage of passengers causes the traveller to be stranded at his destination. moreover, before concluding the contract giving rise to the related service, the operator must inform the traveller, using standard forms, that he will not benefit from the rights guaranteed by the directive, except for protection against insolvency. these are positive elements, but they do not touch on the real problem of private monopolies in the field of transport, which have taken over the public service and have become a drain on public resources to the detriment of the quality and universality of the service.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed directive should be amended to include a new provision on the protection of consumers in the context of the provision of services. the european commission proposes that the operator has the right to increase the price in line with fuel costs, taxes and exchange rate fluctuations, which clearly puts the consumer in a very vulnerable position. in addition, the organiser/retailer is obliged to provide protection in the event of insolvency in order to guarantee the repatriation of travellers and the reimbursement of payments made. however, this obligation only applies to package travel organisers and retailers offering the purchase of combined travel services. although the proposal on the table from the european council and the european commission is not entirely positive, particularly for those who buy travel, we voted against the proposal from the efdd group to reject the amendment of the directive, a directive which is obsolete in view of the emergence of digital operators and which puts smes in the sector at a disadvantage.
‒ i share the disappointment of so many who would have preferred clearer wording on net neutrality. however, the provisions of article 3 (3) on the treatment of traffic establish principles of equality and non-discrimination which i subscribe to. rejecting the compromise reached between parliament and the council would mean three things: 1) returning to the '0' point and waiting a few more years for a new directive; 2) no european standard in the meantime (with the market fragmented into 28 national legal orders... now, the digital internal market calls for legal certainty and harmonisation of standards); 3) rejecting other positive points in the same legal act, such as the end of roaming, which, if the directive is rejected, would continue for several years. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
‒ i voted in favour of the text agreed by the european parliament and the council of the european union in the trilogues last june, because i consider that the end of roaming charges is a great victory for the european project and also a great victory for citizens living in border regions or who have to travel frequently to other member states of the union. in addition to the reduction of roaming charges in 2016 and their abolition in 2017, a very important aspect for the internal market is the establishment of open internet access throughout the eu territory, without blocking or slowing down the quality of the signal due to the location or the type of data being exchanged by the user, something that is certainly of great importance to europeans.
in writing. the new telecoms market regulation includes the first provisions at european level to safeguard open access to the internet by requiring operators to treat all traffic fairly when providing online services. roaming surcharges charged when a person uses his mobile phone in another eu country to make calls, send sms or access the internet will be abolished on 15 june 2017. however, when roaming exceeds the limits of reasonable use, a small fee may be charged. this fee may not exceed the maximum wholesale charges that operators pay for the use of networks in other eu countries. the reduction of roaming charges will take place on 30 april 2016. the maximum level of surcharges will be eur 0,05 per minute for calls, eur 0,02 for sms and eur 0,05 per megabyte of data. these amounts correspond to the ceiling of wholesale tariffs. operators will have to treat all traffic fairly when providing internet access services, in line with the rules on net neutrality. these rules aim to prohibit providers of internet access services from blocking or slowing down content, applications or services of their competitors.
in writing. ‒ the real intentions of this regulation are now even clearer as a result of the negotiations, shattering the illusions of some people during the first reading vote. it is worth recalling the reasons which justified our vote against at first reading. we are facing a giant step forward in the process of deepening the liberalization of the sector, which favours the great powers and their multinationals at the expense of jobs and workers' rights. the attempt to appropriate the internet by the giants of the sector (according to the interests of which this legislative proposal is made) is now being redefined more clearly, and its neutrality is being irrevocably called into question, contrary to what is claimed by the rapporteur and other supporters of this proposal. that alone would justify our vote against it. but there are other reasons for rejecting this proposal, which once again the right wing and the social democrats jointly supported. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. the so-called regulators have been alerted to this, but the european commission has so far not given a satisfactory answer.
in writing. - this report means the abolition of roaming charges in june 2017, the reduction of charges as early as 2016 and open internet access, where operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally. in a very important conciliation effort by the rapporteur, pilar del castillo, it is ensured that the open market will fulfil its function as a free market without frontiers, where the imposition of a system of roaming charges is not justified.
‒ over the past few months, the european institutions have been in deep negotiations to reach an agreement on the future of the telecommunications market, with the european parliament now in a position to vote on the final agreed package. i therefore vote in favour of this agreement, which aims to introduce harmonised rules to ensure open access to the internet, protect users' rights and end existing surcharges. i would also like to safeguard the fact that the principle of net neutrality is enshrined, thus allowing equal access to information for all without any interference in online traffic. it is also worth mentioning the end of roaming in june 2017, which after so many obstacles and negotiations is thus in a position to end, facilitating communications between citizens or companies.
‒ i voted in favour because i considered it important to abolish roaming as another factor in stimulating the free movement of persons .
in writing. the relaunch of negotiations in the telecommunications sector gained new impetus with the latvian presidency in april this year. however, the mandate given by the council was limited to issues relating to roaming, net neutrality, access and consumer rights, leaving out, for example, the reform of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. as regards open access to the internet, i would stress the equal treatment which operators must provide to all consumers of electronic content and applications, preventing them from blocking or restricting services, except in exceptional situations, which i think could have been better specified. in view of the above, i believe that, since regulation is not the ideal, it is always preferable to harmonize the rules of the european electronic communications market rather than a random myriad of disparate national legislation, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
‒ the present document is a step forward in the further development of the single market for electronic communications, with a view to its full liberalisation. it favours the great powers and sharpens the interest of multinationals in obtaining a monopoly of electronic communications, which will be done by destroying more jobs and to the detriment of the interest of workers who will be subject to greater pressure to reduce wages and other rights. on the other hand, the principle of neutrality has suffered a significant blow. the commission has also proposed that the maximum number of users should be limited to the number of internet users in the member state concerned. on the other hand, it provides for the controversial zero rating. the possibility of potential abuse of all these exceptions is therefore open.
‒ this document concerns the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/22/ec and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 in the context of the 'single market for electronic communications'. this report aims to deepen the single market for electronic communications in the eu. according to its advocates, electronic communications companies will be able to operate and provide the service wherever their customers are established. however, this is fundamentally a giant step in the further liberalization of the sector which favours the great powers and sharpens the interest of multinationals in obtaining a monopoly in electronic communications. the regulation has positive aspects related to the abolition of roaming charges and net neutrality. the positive aspects do not, however, cancel out a liberalization trend whose consequences will far outweigh them. we voted against it.
‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of products and activities that are, or may be, used in an abusive manner to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and its revision is an important step towards the objective of further strengthening the eu's role as the main actor in the fight against the death penalty and the eradication of torture. i support the schaake report because i believe that the checklists need to be updated, ensuring an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent the production, trade and use of goods intended for torture or products used for lethal, inhuman or degrading purposes. such controls should, however, be proportionate, not create unnecessary burdens restricting trade that has a legitimate purpose, and should take into account judgments of international courts, deliberations of the competent un bodies or reports of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, etc.
in this report, my vote was naturally against the safeguarding of human rights, the right to life and the right of citizens not to be exposed to cruel or inhuman treatment. the mpt is a humanist party and as such will always be on the side of those who oppose the death penalty and torture. as president of the mpt and as a liberal mep, i voted against the free trade of these substances, which are used for practices that should no longer be allowed in the 21st century.
‒ the anti-torture regulation is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are, or may be, used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it also establishes a ban on the trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and executions and the related technical assistance, as well as a system of authorisation for versatile products which could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection. i agree that it is important to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures in order to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods intended for torture and to effectively control products that could be used for lethal or inhuman purposes.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which aims to combat torture, is an instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are, or may be, used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it aims to contribute to the objective of eliminating the death penalty worldwide and preventing torture by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in the listed products. the regulation establishes a ban on trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and execution, as well as a system of authorisation for versatile products which can be abused to inflict torture and execution by lethal injection. in a context of increasingly complex external trade operations, the effective implementation of controls, checks, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions carried out by national authorities is essential. the rapporteur recalls the need to monitor properly the implementation of member states' commitments, including their obligation to submit and exchange information via a secure and encrypted system on refused authorisations and notifications. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment or for the purpose of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is important that there is a clear and systematic approach to the instrument, combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in certain products. the export control mechanism is and should be in the service of a wider set of objectives, as the rapporteur states.
‒ council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 establishes controls on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment or for the purpose of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the role of the european union in upholding the principle of human dignity needs to be strengthened by revising this regulation and its provisions, thus respecting the basis of european values as laid down in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights. the proposed amendments relate to the conditions under which transfers of goods, technical assistance and marketing are carried out. in the field of external trade operations, member states should strengthen the capacity to suspend or prohibit the transfer of products that are used for lethal or inhumane purposes. legislative conditions should be created to provide for an effective regulation of this type of trade. i am voting in favour of the proposal as it seeks to strengthen protection against human rights violations and to ensure balanced and controlled conditions for international trade, while respecting the legitimate interests of companies and the possible use of these products.
‒ i consider it crucial to prohibit trade in goods that could be used to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i voted in favour of the text because i consider it fair and balanced.
‒ i support this report, which seeks to amend regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the european parliament has stressed in the last five years of the regulation that it would be necessary to adapt it to the current reality, given the strong evidence of the use of medicines exported from the eu for the use of the death penalty in third countries. as such, i welcome the amendment of annexes ii and iii to the regulation, concerning the lists of prohibited and regulated goods, as well as the revision of the regulation itself, highlighting as positive aspects the control of exports used for illicit purposes, the prohibition on the provision of brokering services relating to goods the marketing of which involves the use of the death penalty, torture or other cruel treatment and the exchange of information between customs authorities. although we are faced with amendments which are not consensual and which involve opposition from the business community, which calls for legitimate trade, i think it is essential to strike a careful balance between this business interest and the full guarantee of effective control of the use of certain products for illegitimate purposes.
‒ the revision of this regulation to make the export of goods liable to be used for capital punishment or for the purpose of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment a necessary evolution of the existing legislative framework. it seeks, however, without creating excessive bureaucratic barriers, which could make it difficult to export goods which can be used for various purposes, a balanced solution. it therefore focuses the prohibition on the purpose of the goods, thereby ensuring their use in accordance with the protection of human rights. it is a path that calls for and involves european businesses and their partners across borders in a commitment to defend human rights. it carries a fundamental ethical dimension: liability for transactions in this type of goods does not end when the goods are delivered, but continues until they are used. this regulation also demonstrated that the european union is taking its role as a defender of human rights beyond its borders. it is therefore a further step in strengthening the eu's role as the main responsible actor worldwide in the fight against the death penalty and the eradication of torture.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. this proposal for a regulation deserves the clear political support of the european parliament, in particular the idea of creating a union general export authorisation for countries with firm international commitments and the introduction of an urgent procedure to allow for a rapid update of the control lists. the report also improves the system by extending the number of products controlled, allowing trade in goods, including those not explicitly listed in the regulation, to be stopped by customs authorities if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the products will be used to apply the death penalty, inflict torture or other ill-treatment. i therefore supported this contribution from the european parliament because it makes eu trade policy more consistent with europe's commitment to human rights and ensures that european companies are not complicit in inhumane practices.
‒ regulation no 1236/2005, which aims to combat torture, is an instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are, or may be, used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it aims to contribute to the objective of eliminating the death penalty and preventing torture by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in the listed products. the regulation establishes a prohibition on trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and executions and related technical assistance and a system of authorisation for versatile products that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection. in a context of increasingly complex external trade operations, the effective implementation of controls, checks, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions carried out by national authorities is essential. the rapporteur recalls the need to monitor properly the implementation of member states' commitments, including their obligation to submit and exchange information via a secure and encrypted system on refused authorisations and notifications. we voted in favour.
in writing. the proposal, which obliges member states to exchange automatically information on crossborder tax rulings, is part of a series of initiatives aimed at preventing tax avoidance by companies. the new rules should apply from 1 january 2017. the truth is that member states share very little information with each other about their tax agreements, leaving it to their discretion to decide whether a tax agreement may be relevant to another eu country. the lack of transparency on tax agreements is exploited by certain companies to artificially reduce their tax contribution. however, it could have gone further, in particular by increasing transparency. the directive requires member states to exchange automatically information on 'cross-border' tax rulings, leaving out purely national rulings.
‒ the aim of amending directive 2011/16/eu is to make it applicable to the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. in this connection, it is intended to establish administrative cooperation between the tax authorities (ta) of the member states as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information on advance crossborder tax and transfer pricing arrangements. the proposal also provides that member states receiving information may request additional information in greater detail. it should be noted that prior agreements between the ta and companies such as those at the root of the well-known scandal in luxembourg (luxleaks), in which the current president of the european commission was directly involved are a widespread practice, along with the phenomena of base erosion and profit shifting. this proposal may put some grains in a wheel that deprives sovereign states and their people of the vast millions of euros of resources owed to them by multinationals when paying taxes on profits. resources that are drained from the workers and their families through an unbearable tax burden. the commission has not yet addressed such pressing issues as tax havens, which are veritable sinks of public funds, veritable havens of crime and money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to oblige member states to exchange automatically information on crossborder tax rulings in order to prevent tax evasion by companies. this is a very important proposal for a directive, when it is estimated that corporate tax avoidance deprives the public budgets of eu member states of several billion euros a year.
‒ the european parliament stressed in its resolution of 21 may 2013 that the european union should take a leading role in the global debate on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, especially as regards the promotion of the exchange of information. currently, with directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in force, member states share very little information with each other about their tax arrangements. the proposed amendment, as amended by directive 2014/107/eu, introduces a new article in the directive, which defines the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on cross-border tax and transfer pricing arrangements. this obligation is extended to agreements concluded in the 10 years preceding the date on which the proposed directive takes effect and which are still valid on the date of entry into force of the directive. i believe that this commission proposal will be an important step towards increasing tax transparency and continuing the fight against crossborder tax evasion.
‒ i voted in favour, as i believe that there is a need to increase transparency and the exchange of information in tax matters in order to avoid, among other consequences, distortion of competition.
‒ the challenge posed by crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased considerably and is a matter of concern to governments at european and global level. the european parliament has always stressed the need for the eu to take a leading position against fraud, tax evasion and tax havens and, in doing so, attaches particular importance to enhanced administrative cooperation and transparency in cross-border tax agreements, which allow for the exchange of information between member states, avoiding potential negative effects on their tax bases and reducing the impact of tax evasion. i am in favour of the adoption of this report on a special legislative consultation procedure concerning the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. i would like to highlight as a positive aspect the introduction of a new article on the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on crossborder tax and transfer pricing agreements between member states, and highlight as a negative point the missed opportunity to include purely national and prior transfer pricing agreements in this framework.
in writing. ‒ it is important to be able to provide for the best way to share information effectively between tax authorities and to help reinforce good tax behaviour by large companies. tax evasion causes considerable losses, which inevitably affect national budgets and result in an overburden of taxes on other economic operators and, in particular, on workers. this text helps to prevent budgetary losses resulting from tax abuse by large companies and thus to encourage a greater margin of comfort for national budgets, which are already under pressure.
‒ in the wake of the offshoreleaks, luxleaks and swissleak tax scandals, the european institutions appear to be engaged in this battle against tax fraud and evasion. however, we must ensure that all the measures and proposals under way are not just a piece of legislation, keeping everything the same. or let 's see: the council's proposal on the automatic exchange of information represents a clear setback from initial expectations; the regulation on the exchange of information with switzerland contains several subterfuge to its compliance; the work of the taxe committee has always been difficult. thirteen governments, including those of the netherlands, luxembourg and the united kingdom, have refused access to the documents of the code of conduct group; the reservations about making public the tax agreements and country declarations of multinationals are evident. these are signs that make us doubt the real political will to tackle the problem. indeed, the further we go, the clearer the commitment of the leading figures and parties supporting the eu institutions, starting with the presidents of the european commission and the eurogroup.
in writing. ‒ the aim of amending directive 2011/16/eu is to make it provide for the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. in this regard, it is intended to establish administrative cooperation between the tax authorities of the member states as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information on advance cross-border tax rulings and advance transfer pricing arrangements. we do not agree with the justification that the necessity of mandatory automatic exchange is essentially justified in order to promote the proper functioning of the single market. we nevertheless regarded the objective as positive and therefore voted in favour.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications. the contributions to the enterprise amounted to eur 181 454 844 from the union and eur 341 842 261 from the member states, corresponding to a level of 1,88. the 23 national funding bodies that shared information on their audit strategies represent 95% of all grants awarded. the guarantees provided by the national systems have been positively assessed in the countries representing 54% of the grants awarded, while the assessments for other countries are at an advanced stage of implementation, resulting in a grant coverage of 84%. the company developed a new methodology for the calculation of the residual error rate, with the first assessment based on the 157 audited transactions giving a result of 0,73%, while a recent update based on 331 transactions gave a result of 0,66%, below the materiality threshold of 2%. i approved the report.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a research programme for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the eu's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications. the eniac and artemis joint undertakings having been merged and becoming operational in june 2014, they have created the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel) which will run for 10 years. the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 fairly reflect its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation. that is why we support the rapporteur's positive opinion on discharge. the commission shall carry out an evaluation of the activity of the artemis joint undertaking up to the date of the establishment of the ecsel joint technology initiative as provided for in council regulation (ec) no 74/2008 establishing the artemis joint undertaking.
‒ artemis was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications. in june 2014, eniac and artemis were merged to create the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel) with a ten-year term of operation. given that the court of auditors has stated that artemis' 2013 annual accounts accurately reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with its financial regulation, this report deserves my vote in favour. i believe that all the institutions of the european union should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens for the funds they receive as union institutions.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having regard to the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking (hereinafter referred to as the joint undertaking) was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a research programme for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas in order to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications, and started its autonomous operation in october 2009. according to the joint undertaking, and in accordance with the staff regulations and the rules implementing them, the cvs and declarations of interests of the executive director and the joint undertaking's managers have been published on its website. a database has also been set up and is regularly maintained, which contains all the information identified in relation to conflicts of interest and the measures taken in this context.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas. the eniac and artemis joint undertakings having been merged and becoming operational in june 2014, they have created the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel) which will run for 10 years. the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 fairly reflect its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation. we voted for the discharge.
in writing. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, considered for the second consecutive year that it did not have sufficient guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the grant transactions and added that the quality of the certificates, which cover around 87% of the grant expenditure, was compromised by the fact that they were issued by independent audit firms contracted by the grant beneficiaries. however, it is also true that the office carried out on-the-spot audits covering around 40% of the grants paid under the 2013 grant agreements, and that these audits resulted in a recovery of eur 263 239 for a total audited amount of eur 29 163 272. the office has improved its procurement procedures since 2013 and adopted a proactive approach following the detection of errors by the court. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, considered, for the second consecutive year, that it did not have sufficient guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations. according to the court, the quality of the certificates, which cover about 87% of the expenditure on grants, was compromised by the fact that they were issued by independent audit firms contracted by the beneficiaries of the grants; further recalls that in order to address the gaps related to the quality of audit certificates, the institute improved the instructions provided to the auditors responsible for certification and provided the updated instructions to the knowledge and innovation communities (kics) benefiting from the institute's grants in june 2013. according to the information provided by the office, the office has improved its procurement procedures since 2013 and adopted a proactive approach following the court's finding of errors, notably by terminating the two framework contracts concluded in 2010 and 2012 in which the use of the negotiated procedure was found to be irregular, and by reviewing its internal procedures, circuits and models. we have followed the rapporteur's proposal.
‒ notwithstanding the court of auditors' finding, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, that it did not have sufficient guarantees as to the legality and regularity of grant operations for the second consecutive year, this report sets out the recommendations and procedures followed by the european institute of innovation and technology to comply with the procedures relating to budget implementation. i believe that all the institutions of the european union should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds they receive as union institutions. i approve the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as set out in the report.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the decision of the parliament of 29 april 2015 postponing the decision to grant discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology for the implementation of the financial year 2013, we find that, after this date, the quality and compliance with the legislative, budgetary and regulatory principles have improved substantially in this institute. the action of the current director and the consultation process carried out by the internal audit service, which brought about an improvement in procedures, have contributed greatly to this, as reflected in the approval of the closure of the institute's accounts (for the financial year 2013) by the european parliament, which had my vote in favour.
‒ the funding allocated by the office to the kics in the period 2010-2014 did not exceed the 25% ceiling as set out in the framework partnership agreements between the kics and the office, and the office improved the planning and monitoring of procedures related to budget implementation. in june 2014, the commission's internal audit service (ias) published a follow-up audit report on the state of implementation of the action plan resulting from the strict review of grant management preparation of the annual grant agreements. the sai closed two of the six original recommendations and one recommendation was reclassified from 'critical' to 'very important'. in december 2014, in order to review the progress made in the implementation of the outstanding recommendations, the sai acknowledged that further improvements had been made in the annual grant award process and that all detailed actions presented to the sai during the visit, whether completed, ongoing or planned, adequately address the risks highlighted in the sai's restricted review.
in writing. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, considered that it did not have sufficient guarantees as regards the legality and regularity of the grant transactions for the second year in a row. according to the court, the quality of the certificates, which cover about 87% of the expenditure on grants, was compromised by the fact that they were issued by independent audit firms contracted by the beneficiaries of the grants; recalls, furthermore, that in order to address the gaps related to the quality of audit certificates, the institute has improved the instructions provided to the auditors responsible for certification. in june 2014, the commission's internal audit service (ias) published a follow-up audit report on the state of implementation of the action plan resulting from the strict review of grant management preparation of the annual grant agreements. the sai closed two of the six original recommendations and another recommendation was reclassified from 'critical' to 'very important'. in december 2014, in order to review progress made in implementing the outstanding recommendations, the sai acknowledged that further improvements had been made to the annual grant award process. we voted yes.
‒ eniac was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in the field of nanoelectronics, cross-cutting the different areas of application, with a maximum contribution for the 10-year period, allocated by the union to the joint undertaking, of eur 450 000 000 from the budget of the seventh research framework programme. the eniac and artemis joint undertakings were merged to create the joint technology initiative in the field of 'electronic components and systems for european leadership', with 23 national funding bodies sharing information on their audit strategies, representing 95% of all grants awarded. the joint undertaking has made progress in implementing the action plan to address the deficiencies identified by the court, with the guarantees provided by the national systems being positively assessed in countries representing 54% of the grants awarded, while assessments for other countries are at an advanced stage of implementation, resulting in a grant coverage of 84%. i voted in favour.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across different application areas, and acquired financial autonomy in july 2010. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 fairly reflect, in all material respects, its financial position at the end of 2013, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. a workshop on guarantees was organised, bringing together representatives of the court, the commission and the commission's internal audit service, as well as representatives of the national funding bodies operating in the joint undertaking, highlighting the requirements of the european programmes, and enabling the exchange of information and good practices with the national funding bodies. the creation of a database containing all information identified in relation to conflicts of interest and the measures taken in this context is underlined. we have followed the rapporteur's proposal.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics, across the different application areas. in july 2010, eniac became financially autonomous. in june 2014, the eniac and artemis joint undertakings were merged to create the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel) with a ten-year term of operation. given that the court of auditors has declared that the annual accounts of eniac for the year 2013 accurately reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation, this report on the closure of eniac's accounts for the year 2013 deserves my vote in favour. i believe that the institutions of the european union should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens for the funds they receive as union institutions.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having regard to the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across different application areas, and acquired financial autonomy in july 2010. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 fairly reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across different application areas, and acquired financial autonomy in july 2010. the eniac and artemis joint undertakings were merged to create the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel) which became operational in june 2014 and will run for 10 years. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 fairly reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the european commission. we voted for the discharge.
‒ the union institutions must be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as union institutions, and both the european council and the council must be subject to democratic accountability to the citizens of the union as beneficiaries of the general budget of the european union. parliament asked the council to report on the progress of the building projects and a detailed breakdown of the costs incurred to date, and to provide information on its administrative modernisation process, in particular on the concrete measures taken to this end and the impact expected on the council's budget. it also regrets that the council has not provided any explanation for the increasing level of under-spent appropriations and commitments carried over in its 2013 budget. i voted in favour.
‒ as usual, parliament once again refuses to give the secretary-general of the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council, and the reasons remain the same. there is much talk about 'transparency' and much demand on this matter from (some) member states. however, the council, the supranational decision-making body of the eu that includes representatives of the governments of the different member states, seems to be immune to such "demands", since since 2010 it has not responded to questions and demands for clarification, either about the increasing level of under-utilized appropriations and commitments carried over in its 2013 budget, or about the state of progress of real estate projects and a detailed breakdown of costs recorded to date. once again, the council's expenditure is not examined by the only directly elected institution responsible for the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu, as provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. does the rapporteur acknowledge the democratic deficit, which we have always denounced, reflected in the council's attitude of not presenting the requested documents, which is a cause for concern? we voted in favour.
‒ this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 is a clear example of the lack of cooperation and communication between the council and parliament, in particular the failure of the council to provide any explanation for the increasing level of under-utilized appropriations and commitments carried over to its 2013 budget. it is important to stress that the council's failure to submit the documents requested by parliament is a serious breach of the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency. i believe that the union institutions must be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as union institutions. the european council and the council, as institutions of the union, should be subject to the democratic accountability of the citizens of the union, since they are beneficiaries of the general budget of the eu. i think it is essential that there should be greater cooperation between parliament and the council in order to achieve effective budgetary control. i agree with the report's position that parliament is not in a position to take a reasoned decision on the granting of discharge.
‒ in giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. therefore, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision, which gives the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013.
‒ parliament once again refuses to give the secretary-general of the council discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council, for the same reasons as always. there is much talk of 'transparency' and much demand in this area from (some) member states, particularly in the field of budgetary and economic policy. however, the council, the supranational decision-making body of the eu involving representatives of the governments of the different member states, seems to be immune to such 'demands' as, since 2010, it has not responded to questions and demands for clarification, either about the increasing level of under-spent appropriations and commitments carried over in its 2013 budget, or about the state of progress of real estate projects and a detailed breakdown of costs recorded to date. once again, the council's expenditure is not examined by the only directly elected institution responsible for the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ as has become almost a habit, parliament has once again refused to give the secretary-general of the council discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council, for the same reasons as those cited above. there is much talk of 'transparency', particularly in the field of budgetary and economic policy. however, the council, the supranational decision-making body of the eu that includes representatives of the governments of the different member states, seems to be immune to such "demands", since since 2010 it does not respond to questions and demands for clarification, either about the increasing level of under-utilized appropriations and commitments carried over in its 2013 budget, or about the state of progress of real estate projects and a detailed breakdown of costs recorded to date. we voted to refuse to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses and defends many of the principles i have been advocating in the context of the european union's foreign policy. as the world's leading actor in development and humanitarian aid, it has a special responsibility to promote the right to universal access to health care, and is required to be one step ahead of all other actors. i think it is extremely important that the european union should try to act on two fronts in this context: on the one hand, in terms of development aid, which includes essential investments in the field of health, and on the other hand, in terms of the indispensable assistance for the economic recovery of the countries most affected by the ebola epidemic. i shall vote in favour of this and other aspects of the text and hope that it will be adopted.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the most severe ebola outbreak known to date. at the local, regional, national and global levels, the ebola crisis is systemic. however, the international community has been slow to understand the gravity of the situation and to react, with ngos being more effective, better informed and better placed to be on the frontline in the fight against ebola. i support this report because i believe it is essential that, on the basis of this experience, we should start preparing for the post-ebola period now. the european union must act on two fronts: on the one hand, in terms of development aid, which includes essential investments in the field of health, and on the other hand, in terms of the indispensable assistance for the economic recovery of the three countries. the european development fund (edf) programme for these three countries should be reassessed in the light of the multiple challenges created by the ebola crisis. i welcome the eu's willingness to devote at least 20% of public aid to the development of basic social sectors, giving priority to health.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been victims of the worst ebola outbreak in human history. the permeability of borders has facilitated the passage of the virus from one country to another. the three countries concerned are among the lowest in the undp human development index. its average life expectancy is less than 60 years, schooling rarely exceeds three years and about 80% of its citizens live in extreme poverty. it is therefore clear that these three countries cannot solve the problem on their own. the european parliament remains true to its tradition and recalls that its task is to control the executive, to exercise its prerogatives as legislator and to give political impetus. the european union must therefore respond to the challenges ahead in the fight against ebola. i agree that the current ebola crisis reveals the structural gaps that still exist in many countries and, on the other hand, reminds european union leaders of the need to persevere in their desire to devote at least 20% of public aid to the development of basic social sectors, giving priority to health.
in writing. this report looks at the ebola crisis in liberia, sierra leone and guinea-conacri and seeks to draw lessons from it. the report is contradictory, including some clearly positive aspects, others not so much, and also some negative aspects. it is important that for the first time the disastrous effects of the imf and world bank interventions on the deterioration of the health and education systems in these and other more vulnerable countries are recognised. positive recommendations are made on the increase in development aid by the eu and its member states, the need to reorient the priorities of the european development fund to match the real priorities of these countries (public services, especially health, support for small-scale production, family farming, etc.) and access to medicines, pointing out the problem of 'patent dictatorship'. but the report is not always consistent in advocating universal and free access to health services. while some paragraphs make this requirement explicit, others use more ambiguous terms such as 'comprehensive services'. the public-private partnership model advocated for medicines, on the other hand, overrides the desirable preponderance of strong public capacity in this area. in acknowledging the efforts of countries and organizations to combat the epidemic, an essential reference to cuba is missing.
‒ there is still little knowledge about the transmission and mutation potential of the ebola virus. the european union's commitment to contain the spread of the ebola virus and its support for the development of logistics and research to respond to the crisis should be recalled, but the lessons we have learned from the need to strengthen health systems in developing countries should not be forgotten. these types of epidemics require transnational cooperation for outbreak assessment and management.
‒ the ebola virus has created an international public health emergency with countries such as sierra leone, liberia and guinea suffering the worst ebola outbreak in human history. the scale of this catastrophe is due to political, cross-border, surveillance, diagnosis, research, and other factors. the european union must play a leading role in this matter, helping to advance a coherent national health system for each of these countries. the development of health systems worldwide, with a particular focus on developing countries, should involve new investments in infrastructure, surveillance and information systems, the supply of medicines, human resources and the management of health services themselves. the role of ngos is central and it is of the utmost importance to further develop their skills in the future. i support this report, stressing the need to develop local health systems with the support of the european union and to implement effective information and communication conditions as a means of prevention.
‒ the ebola crisis has shown that, despite some initial delays in the international response, there has been a strong response from the european union and its member states to combat the spread of the virus, as well as a strong commitment in the areas of humanitarian and development aid. in fact, this serious crisis has turned out to be a real test for the international community, as ebola has proved to be a systemic epidemic capable of taking on a transnational dimension. for this reason, the contingency plans called for consistent and responsible international cooperation, bringing together efforts in the areas of research, innovation and crisis management, but also long-term investments in strengthening health systems and governance, particularly in terms of public health, in developing countries. i therefore support the urgent need for these countries to invest in the health sector, equipping it with specialists in the various fields as well as logistical facilities, which can ensure quality medical care, and, in parallel, the importance of reviewing the programming of the 11th european development fund, with a view to ensuring that investments in health and good governance become priority areas for all countries with public infrastructures considered to be fragile.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ebola crisis because the european parliament makes very important recommendations to strengthen health systems in developing countries and prevent future epidemics (ebola and other diseases). the report recalls that the current outbreak in west africa reveals the serious gaps in many countries in all essential services and calls for the appropriate lessons to be drawn from this crisis. the report recommends and insists on the following: strengthening eu aid to developing countries in the field of health and other basic social sectors (education and training, sanitation, food security and clean water); eu assistance to the economic recovery of the three countries most affected by ebola (sierra leone, liberia and guinea); the creation of a permanent european rapid reaction team; and finally the creation of a network of monitoring points in developing countries to detect, as early as possible, new cases of infectious diseases that could become pandemics. the report is an important contribution to future union responses in terms of prevention and management of health crises and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
‒ we must recognize that the imf and world bank programmes have devastated the fragile health infrastructure in these countries, devastated public health services, and more, creating a situation of inability to cope with the progression of the epidemic. it is therefore essential to reverse this process and support the construction of universal, free public health systems; the training of specialised health personnel. we must combat the hegemony of pharmaceutical companies in the development of new medicines, the dictatorship of patents; we must support the development of essential public services, such as water and sanitation; we must cancel the external debt of these countries. we welcome, however, and we are grateful for all the international aid that is still needed, and it is worth recalling here the giant example of a small country - cuba - which alone has sent more doctors and nurses to the affected countries than all the other western countries combined.
‒ this report analyses the ebola crisis in liberia, sierra leone and guinea. the rapporteur considers that the scale of the disaster can be attributed to a number of factors: the political inability of the affected countries to raise the alarm, the inadequate response of the international community, the devastating effects of the closure of borders and the restrictions imposed on people, the ineffectiveness of the surveillance and alert mechanisms, the slow and poorly adapted response when aid was mobilised, the glaring lack of leadership by the who and the lack of research and development in the field of medicines, diagnostics and vaccines. the report's most negative aspects include its uncritical tone towards the slow international response, particularly that of the eu, and its call for the european commission to launch a broad public-private partnership to 'strengthen national health systems and facilitate transfers of results to the population', an approach that is contrary to the objectives it seeks to achieve. we abstained.
in writing. ‒ on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a warning of pollution violations by diesel vehicles of the volkswagen group, and the group later admitted to having installed software that detected when the car was being tested, reducing the amount of emissions. i support this resolution in which the european parliament condemns all fraud perpetrated by car manufacturers and calls on the companies to assume all their responsibilities and to cooperate with the authorities in the investigations. the european commission should rethink the current type-approval system to ensure that type-approvals and certificates from the competent national authorities can be independently verified. the european commission and the competent authorities of all member states should have the right to re-evaluate the type-approval and certificate of conformity, and to require the withdrawal and the end of the placing on the market of vehicles, when they have evidence of non-compliance with eu emission limit values. the commission should adopt and apply the new real driving emissions test cycle without delay.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it is recalled that air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year and has an estimated cost of eur 940 billion due to its health effects. the automotive industry is a major driver of growth and innovation, contributing to employment in a significant number of member states, and in the absence of firm action, the current scandal could jeopardise the reputation and competitiveness of the entire sector, as it has affected millions of deceived and misled consumers. i condemn any fraud perpetrated by car manufacturers, and companies must take full responsibility for their actions and cooperate fully with the authorities in their investigations. it is essential that the commission and the member states quickly restore consumer confidence through concrete measures and make every possible effort to defuse the situation.
in writing. - we are facing another scandal that exposes the true essence of capitalism. this case - the full contours of which are not yet known, nor the implications of which are fully understood - clearly shows the well-known domination of economic power over political power. on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of violation of the pollution standards applicable to volkswagen ag, audi ag and volkswagen group of america. knowing that these are practices of years, one may ask why now the revelation questions whose answer will not be disconnected from the trade wars between the two biggest giants of the automotive industry. the european commission was alerted in 2013 by a report of the joint research centre to the potential existence of illegal software in diesel vehicles of the volkswagen group. however, it did not warn the competent national authorities of the member states about the impact of manipulating devices on the reliability of measurement of diesel emissions from cars. basically, it has done nothing, thus demonstrating how, despite all the rhetoric associated with environmental issues, it is dominated by the interests of the large multinational companies, which effectively control the european union.
‒ in the wake of the recent scandal in the automotive sector, and given that the automotive industry is one of the main drivers of growth and innovation, creating jobs for most member states, the lack of a clear approach and the introduction of firm measures could jeopardise the reputation and consequent competitiveness of this important sector. the fraud committed must be condemned, the responsibility for it must be established, but the european union must draw conclusions based on the implementation of a firm strategy that does not compromise the importance of the sector.
‒ following recent events concerning the volkswagen group's breach of pollution rules, in which thousands of vehicles were found to have been manipulated to artificially reduce the amount of polluting emissions into the atmosphere, a series of measures have been proposed in the european parliament to prevent fraudulent situations that endanger public health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. hence the need to create conditions that provide effective systems for controlling pollutant emissions by strengthening monitoring systems, as the transport sector is a major contributor to the levels of pollution in the atmosphere, as well as to the impact that this contribution has on health. for effective control, european and national authorities should strengthen their surveillance of the automotive sector by identifying possible situations of fraud that may arise. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because this is a matter of extreme importance, which requires an effective response from the european union, since social and environmental issues are at stake which lack answers and solutions for prevention.
‒ i believe it is important that additional measures are taken to strengthen the eu strategy for sustainable and efficient transport systems. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the measurement of emissions in the automobile sector, because i consider that any fraud by car manufacturers should be strongly condemned (this joint motion for a resolution brought together different resolutions from 4 different parliamentary groups - epp, s&d, greens and alde - leaving out the ecr and gue/ngl parliamentary groups, which maintained their initial proposals), with the aim of misleading consumers about the emissions of their vehicles, especially when we know that excess emissions cause premature death and have harmful effects on human health and the environment (and obviously also in governments and companies, although there are other reasons for this, such as tax evasion or even environmental fraud). for this reason, i consider it essential that the commission and the member states make every effort to restore consumer confidence, which requires research, monitoring and control of emission limit values, dialogue and collaboration with the automotive industry and strict compliance with european legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of violation of the pollution standards applicable to volkswagen ag, audi ag and volkswagen group of america. the commission has also received information from the united kingdom on the use of the 'clean energy' technology in the volkswagen group's diesel vehicles. however, it did not warn the competent national authorities of the member states of the impact of the manipulating devices on the reliability of the measurement of diesel emissions from cars. in other words, we are once again faced with the usual domination of economic power over political power. we are once again faced with a european commission dominated by the interests of the large multinational companies, which effectively control the european union.
in writing. ‒ on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of violation of the pollution standards applicable to volkswagen ag, audi ag and volkswagen group of america. unfortunately, the european commission was alerted in 2013 by a report of the joint research centre to the potential existence of illegal software in diesel vehicles. once again we are faced with a european commission dominated by the interests of the large multinational companies which effectively control the european union. we abstained from this report because this criticism is not implicit.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, we agree with the first vice-president that this is not the time for business as usual. in our opinion, the ten priorities remain valid but they need to be articulated in a completely different way. we can see that our most important challenge now is to address the refugee crisis and to prevent a humanitarian crisis on this front in such a way that we are also able to protect the schengen area. we know that this requires a real asylum system in europe, a real european border and a real immigration policy. so we will support the commission in building up these new instruments. but at the same time we need to turn europe into a real space for prosperity. we believe that this year should be the time for this commission to deliver a real update of the europe 2020 strategy. this is not only about energy transition, but about a circular economy to better manage our resources. this is not only about research and development, but about providing new digital solutions and innovation, again to create quality jobs. we need to make the best of our investment plan, and of the revision of the budgetary instrument, to deliver much better on this strategy. but at the same time we are concerned with something which is happening now in europe, namely a race to the bottom. there is a risk of a race to the bottom and of member states competing with each other by downgrading their social standards. that is why we believe that this is the time for a strong pillar of social rights, this is the time for a mobility package to come, but this is also the time to tackle tax evasion in such a way that taxes are paid where profits are made. we really consider these a top priority and we think that the ambition to complete economic and monetary union should be driven by a central goal. the central goal is upward convergence. we consider that, if we want to deliver this upward convergence, we also need to complete the banking union and to build up a real fiscal capacity in the euro area. but then we say that none of these ambitions are effective if we are not supported by a more ambitious external action. yes, mr first vice-president, we agree with you. we need to have an updated global strategy and the first test for this would be for europe to lead the next paris conference, for europe to lead in the implementation of the sustainable development goals, and let me also address the importance of bringing about a real partnership with africa as our neighbour continent. so these are our expectations for the year to come. this parliament was very active in delivering a resolution and you can count on us to be very active in pushing in the right direction.
the juncker plan is a key pillar of the strategy of the current european commission. instead of having the central bank finance investment or changing the rules for accounting for deficits in order to boost public investment and attract private investment, the european commission is presenting us with a financial engineering exercise which is not even new, as it has been tried in the past, and without success. this fund's not gonna solve anything. first, because it won't have the impact that we'd expect, given the totally unrealistic assumptions. even if some capital is raised, it will finance projects on the basis of criteria of financial viability. the regulation, despite our suggestions, does not contain any criteria for geographical distribution or regional cohesion. the fund is entirely managed by technocrats, and the strategic guidelines will be set by a board where votes are proportional to the volume of capital invested. this is the antithesis of what we stand for in europe. this is another plan designed to fuel public-private partnerships, and it will once again be the rich countries that get the lion's share.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to greet the commission, the commissioner and the presidency of the council, as well as all my colleagues. this is a budget which i consider to be realistic, responsible and credible. the european union must rise to the challenges it faces; the european union must say yes to the agreements it has signed: as i have said many times, pacta sunt servanda, commitments are to be kept. i am referring to the multiannual financial framework. i am referring, for example, to the payment plan; i am referring to the expectations that have been created in the citizens and beneficiaries in relation to these issues. it is clear that we must respect the europe 2020 strategy and implement the multiannual financial framework. we do this by taking account of the absorption capacity of the lines, the interest of the programmes and the policies that have been defined, and we want to make the most of the flexibility we have available in the multiannual financial framework. employment is the top priority, the competitiveness of the european union cannot be forgotten and all the programmes we have to strengthen it must be put into action. we want to strengthen the horizon 2020 and cosme programmes. youth unemployment is still very high and the 'employment for youth' initiative must therefore continue. we propose that in 2016, contrary to what the european commission has done, there should be commitment appropriations for this initiative to continue. we stand for the three e's: employment, enterprises (especially small and medium-sized enterprises) and entrepreneurship, to strengthen the european union's competitiveness. we have not forgotten the refugee problem, the refugee crisis, and we have said so in the various resolutions we have tabled here. in this context, we are in favour of a package for this problem which takes account of the internal and external dimensions, and therefore we do not understand, as i said in the last plenary, the council's cuts in instruments which contribute to cooperation and development, such as the cooperation instrument and the pre-accession instrument, or the cuts in the fight against poverty in the mediterranean. in this package for the refugee crisis, to combat it, we want to strengthen the means that must give dignity and welcome to refugees, as well as internal solidarity, but also this external solidarity, using all the means and all the financial instruments at our disposal, as well as the agencies. a common policy is required to achieve this; coordination is required and also coordination. refugees are not the culprits, refugees are the victims, and for this extraordinary situation, we also need to have additional means, extraordinary means. it would be unacceptable if the council did not want to make any additional effort in this area and wanted to make reassignments. if this were not the case, we would be faced with fine words from the council, but words which are never put into practice. solidarity, as i have said many times, is practiced, not preached.
madam president, this budget reflects the present state of the european union: a project that is stranded in a sea of uncertainty and lack of mutual trust, which holds back countries from contributing to its budget. this budget, short for such ambition, will only fuel the disillusionment of those who still believe in this european project. we welcome the efforts to build the best possible budget within the narrow limits imposed by the refusal of the major countries to contribute to strengthening it. we are not, however, under any illusions about a project which puts everything on the supply side and believes that investment will fall from the sky through a strategic investment fund without credibility, which will only strengthen public-private partnerships and the concentration of investment in the wealthier regions. it is also worth remembering that many of the most hotly debated issues in this budget, such as support for farmers and refugees, stem from the wrong policies that characterize this european union in crisis of values.
the rapporteur. mr president, allow me to thank all the rapporteurs who have worked with me on this budget, a special hug to gérard deprez, all the coordinators, also all the advisers, the secretariat. to give some information to the presidency of the council. firstly, when we adopted this budget, the letter of amendment from the commission had not yet been adopted and was not known. secondly, even after we have approved the budget and have been informed of letter of amendment no 2, we have learned that it meets our requirements in the area of the refugee crisis, but also in the area of support for farmers and the five hundred million euros with which we intend to strengthen this support for farmers, contrary to what the presidency of the council has said. another piece of information that is a refresher: when we approved the efsi, when we approved the juncker plan, we always said that the guarantee funding was temporary as far as withdrawing money from horizon 2020 and the european mechanism interconnecting europe. do not get me wrong, we have not backed down, we have defended the juncker plan (i myself was rapporteur for the juncker plan). we also want the commitments made to the beneficiaries under the multiannual financial framework for horizon 2020 to be respected. to sum up our priorities, which are quite clear, except for the presidency of the council. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. neither the commission nor the council are available to put one euro in the next 2016 budget so that the youth employment initiative can go ahead. it is a bad signal to the young people of the european union, who need this initiative, even if it is re-formulated, to continue and in 2016 we will continue to fight for appropriations for commitments for this purpose. we will be fully prepared to continue to give priority to employment and the refugee crisis. i welcome what was said today by the president of our european commission, which we have written in several resolutions: for extraordinary situations, we need extraordinary money. what they call redeployment, what they call reassignments, means cutting priorities, and we cannot accept that refugees are used to cut policies that are important, nor can we put that responsibility on them. and as i have always said, refugees are victims, not guilty, and therefore they need sufficient resources and exceptional and additional amounts for this purpose.
mr president, what the palestinians want is very simple: an end to the occupation, a free, independent and viable state with the 1967 borders and with east jerusalem as its capital. the israeli government has for decades been promoting state terrorism, and has been pursuing a gigantic campaign of seizing all palestinian resources through settlements, land expropriation and water control, thus undermining any possibility of the creation of a palestinian state. at the same time, it maintains pressure through an uninterrupted succession of provocative actions, with checkpoints, arbitrary detentions, targeted killings. the situation in gaza is intolerable. the role of this assembly can only be to fight for international legality and respect for human rights. the european parliament must unequivocally condemn the building of settlements in the west bank. the european parliament must suspend all cooperation agreements with israel until the atrocities are stopped. the european parliament must use all its influence and all its prerogatives to contribute to a political and peaceful solution of the problem.
mr president, the humanitarian catastrophe in south sudan is the result of an unresolved conflict, partly instigated from outside, in the region itself, represented in igad. there's no point in pretending otherwise. the international community cannot continue to ignore the scale of destruction, atrocities and loss of human life, as the african union has done, in particular by delaying the report on the atrocities referred to by federica mogherini. the european countries that supported the partition of sudan in 2011 cannot now whistle in the wind, cannot but do all their efforts to bring about peace, security, for the african union and the united nations to achieve a ceasefire, mechanisms of national reconciliation, transitional justice. and that implies targeted sanctions and a strict arms embargo. it is urgent to ensure immediate humanitarian access to all areas to rescue and save the wounded, the maimed, people at risk of being slaughtered in indiscriminate violence or decimated by hunger. we cannot turn a blind eye to the atrocities that are happening as we speak: women being used as weapons of war, children being forced to fight and then raped, castrated, put inside buildings to burn. enough of this infamous silence. the european union must be at the forefront of demanding that the security council act to put an end to the barbarism which is a disgrace to all humanity. i would like to believe, like federica mogherini, that igad can solve this problem, just as the khartoum process can work to help us solve the other refugee crisis that we have on our doorstep, but unfortunately i don't.
mr president, the situation in south sudan is still a relic of the colonial era, when the tactic, still current, was to divide and conquer. the creation of south sudan in 2011 is inseparable from the presence of significant oil reserves. only in this way can we understand how fratricidal conflicts, disguised as religious wars, are born. weapons don't fall from the sky, they're supplied to warring factions by powerful interests whose origin isn't even hard to discern. it is probably no coincidence that glencore international, a commodities giant known for its disregard for human rights, now dominates oil production in that country. this swiss-based company has been implicated in a succession of scandals involving tax fraud and evasion, arms trafficking, etc. the solution to this conflict can only be found in respect for the sovereignty of the people of south sudan, in their right to dispose of their resources. it therefore implies an immediate cessation of all arms supplies, which is an absolutely necessary condition for any reconciliation process that is at all consistent.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. i was mayor for 24 years and also president of the national association of portuguese municipalities for 12 years. in these roles, and also, fundamentally, as a citizen of a cohesion member state, i have learned to respect and apply the structural and investment funds in my country accordingly. cohesion policy, aligned in this multiannual financial framework with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, has been the european union's main development instrument. its objectives of reducing disparities between european regions and promoting convergence have contributed to a more harmonious development of our union, and it should be emphasized that, in the previous community framework, cohesion policy was, in many of our member states, practically the only source of investment in the territory. that is why, in a timely manner, and in an effort to anticipate the interinstitutional dialogue and reflection that we are starting today with the commission on the review of the europe 2020 strategy, the regi committee has decided to make its position on the matter known as soon as possible. commissioner, i hope that this position will also become the european parliament's position on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy as of tomorrow. in summary, we therefore stress that we would like to see a balanced and intelligent review of the strategy, focusing on a greater interlinking of its five objectives and flagship initiatives, as well as the possibility of voluntary differentiated regional targets for the strategy, discussed at regional level, greater precision in the progress indicators provided by eurostat at nuts 2 and nuts 3 level, and a strong focus on multi-level governance and the importance of ownership and implementation of the strategy by all its stakeholders on the ground. in this context, it is also important to conclude an agreement between the regional authorities and the european institutions to ensure that these important administrative actors are involved in the strategy and that they are involved in it, and to adopt a code of conduct in line with that already adopted in the context of cohesion policy, and to involve the european parliament in all relevant discussions in good time with a view to designing the policies covered by the strategy, their implementation and their evaluation. the review of the strategy should also promote greater articulation and reinforcement of synergies between cohesion policy and horizon 2020 funds with a view to pursuing the goals and objectives of the strategy itself, as well as recognition of the important role of cities and small, medium and large urban areas and, very specifically, of urban people in the future of the europe 2020 strategy. the new investment instrument of the european union, the european fund for strategic investments, known as the juncker plan, which will already mobilise a maximum of eur 315 billion in investments, is relevant in order to reduce the investment deficit in the european union and also to maximise the impact of public spending, but it should always be complementary and additional to the european structural and investment funds. in conclusion, i hope and wish that the regrettable delays in the start of implementation of cohesion policy which occurred at the beginning of the current financial framework will not occur. both cohesion policy and the next long-term strategy of the european union should therefore be drawn up before the end of the current mandate of the european commission. on this issue, i would also remind you that there will also be elections to the european parliament in 2019, which will place significant temporary constraints not only on the co-legislators - for example, as regards the timing of the negotiations - but also on the next commission and even on the member states, as regards the preparation and approval of the new agreements and the partnerships of operational programmes, which is naturally expected to happen before the start of the next community framework.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, article 23 of the common provisions regulation is a penalising provision which is clearly contrary to the spirit of cohesion policy. economic macro-conditionality has been incorporated into that regulation, making european funds hostage to circumstances, often created by the european union itself and other institutions. this is the case of the well-known troika. it is worth recalling that since 2008 the asymmetries between european regions have increased. we all agree with good governance and we all support transparency and accountability, but we do not all want to see a double penalty imposed on countries and regions which need the structural funds to ensure their economic growth, job creation and social inclusion. in some cases we have the triple penalty, as is the case in the outermost regions. article 23 is itself a policy of austerity.
madam president, commissioner, as a result of the economic and financial crisis in some member states, the funds which give substance to cohesion policy and which are intended to finance projects aimed at promoting it have become of crucial importance. they have guaranteed investment capacity for the economic recovery of countries with macroeconomic imbalances. the economic governance recommendations should take this into account and ensure that the regions are safeguarded as recipients of these funds. in this europe 2020 mid-term review, the uneven impact of the crisis must be taken into account. different territorial and social characteristics have led to different resilience capacities, due to youth unemployment in the outermost regions. multi-level governance mechanisms should recognise the capacity of regional and local authorities to intervene. i'll close with a warning. although the operational programmes have been agreed, their implementation is still in its infancy and has been fraught with difficulties.
madam president, we agree with the strategic objectives of cohesion policy. what we cannot understand is why the poorest countries and regions continue to deviate from the european average. this is the case in portugal, which, since the euro came into operation, has consistently deviated from the european union average in terms of gdp per head. so something is wrong. there is no cohesion. the policies do not work because the macroeconomic framework is not consistent with regional development policies, i.e. austerity policies, public spending restraint, whether good or bad, do not allow the establishment of virtuous dynamics of local or regional development. i can give you examples of projects that don't get off the ground because there's no funding, because the banks prefer to speculate. we can see funds that have not been used in portugal because of the troika's impositions and the necessary adjustment, aimed at the so-called consolidation of public finances. and the result is in sight. after almost 30 years of integration, portugal is poorer, more dependent and more indebted.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members who have spoken in support of the report i am the rapporteur for, and i believe that although it is coherent and affirmative, it naturally includes a number of ideas and guidelines which came from other political groups, which i considered relevant and which enriched the initial document. so my thanks go to the shadow rapporteurs and to all the colleagues who have decided to table amendments, and there have been 191 amendments. i also thank the commissioner for her words and i would like to thank her in advance for her clear analysis and for her manhood in recognising that the five objectives of the strategy are far from being achieved. i would also like to thank you for your words and for the fact that you have taken up many of my concerns in the report, particularly those relating to strengthening the sense of co-ownership of the strategy by those on the ground, very much the local and regional authorities in particular, but also the national and regional parliaments. we want, as the commissioner has rightly said, that the strengthening of multi-level governance not only increases the feeling of co-ownership of the strategy, but also greatly improves its effectiveness and, consequently, also its results. finally, i would like to conclude with the certainty that this debate has contributed, in our view, in a comprehensive way in party and territorial political terms, on the one hand, but also in a positive and consequential way, on the other, to the joint interinstitutional dialogue and reflection that we have just started in this plenary on the review of the europe 2020 strategy after the public consultation process carried out during 2014.
madam president, we usually spend more time lamenting the old problem of the democratic deficit than we do discussing measures to improve our democracy. that is not the case today, and i would therefore like to congratulate our colleagues jo leinen and danuta hübner on their excellent report, which proposes a very important but realistic reform of the electoral law for the european elections. this is one of the few areas where parliament has the right of legislative initiative, but we have a duty, not just a right, to do more to strengthen the european dimension of democracy. we have already taken an important step by linking the candidatures for president of the commission to the european elections, and we must now go further. with this reform, ballot papers and campaign materials will also give visibility to european parties. we will have the same principle of gender equality throughout europe, the same deadlines for the submission of lists and candidates, the same closing hours for the polls, the same possibility of electronic and postal voting, and we will also have a barrier clause requiring a minimum of 3 to 5% of the votes to elect members in states electing more than 26 members. more harmonized rules and more transparency so that citizens know who they are voting for and why. european democracy will be better off with this electoral reform.
madam president, let us look at recent years: approving treaties behind the backs of the citizens, evading their democratic scrutiny, evading referendums or defying and disrespecting their outcome when it is inconvenient. when they cannot even approve treaties, the rules in force are subverted and treaties are adopted outside the existing legal order, as was the case with the budgetary treaty, which mrs merkel justified by saying that 'we need something to guarantee that even if governments change, policies do not change'. it interferes directly and openly, illegitimately, in the sovereign decisions of the peoples. governments are determined, policies are imposed and democratically elected bodies such as national parliaments are submitted. there is no possible disguise for the undemocratic nature of this european union. the building is structurally undemocratic, there is no paint that is applied to the walls that changes this nature. this report contains aspects of the greatest gravity, which means an anti-democratic escalation and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank members for all their comments and for this very interesting debate. i wish to conclude by reiterating that the commission fully supports parliament’s efforts to adopt this timely and very ambitious proposal. in our opinion, to deliver a union of democratic change we need to build on the concept of lead candidates. the success of europe as a political project requires an efficient democratic system in which its citizens are fully engaged. strengthening the link between the elections for representatives of the citizens and the selection and election process of the head of the european executive is a tangible demonstration of the impact of citizens’ democratic participation on the eu decision-making process. as i said at the beginning, it is very important to highlight the importance of a quota or gender balance, to which i gave my full support as a member of the european parliament. this proposal is a concrete way to create a new sense of engagement in the construction of europe and stimulate citizens to play a more active role in european democracy. as i said at the beginning, at the present time it is really crucial to build and contribute to trust between citizens and european institutions.
the rapporteur. madam president, the court of justice of the european union launched a legislative initiative in 2011 to amend its statute to allow the appointment of 12 additional judges to the general court. in april 2014, this claim was approved by parliament at first reading. however, the council never appointed any of these 12 judges because the member states could not reach an agreement on the choice of judges, as each state wanted to appoint its own judge and the number of judges to be appointed, 12, did not coincide with the number of nominating states, 28. thus, in october 2014, the court came to ask for 28 more judges, double the existing ones, as well as the abolition of the court of the civil service. in april 2014, 12 more judges were needed to resolve the alleged problems of the court, but by october of that same year, 28 more judges were needed, as well as the extinction of one court. it is obvious that this is not a question of solving any court problem, but of solving a problem of the council, which is not able to appoint members who do not coincide with its members. the proposal under discussion is not merely an amendment to the original legislative proposal, but a new proposal, since it is no longer just the appointment of 12 more judges, but 28 more and the abolition of a specialised court, as provided for in the treaties of nice and lisbon. the commission, however, was obliged to give its opinion on the content of the new legislative proposal, which it did not do, since it only gave its opinion on the appointment of 12 more judges and not 28 more, and it never gave any opinion on the abolition of the civil service tribunal. the treaty provides for the creation of specialised courts, not their abolition. the abolition of the civil service tribunal would mean abandoning the system of specialised courts provided for in the treaties of nice and lisbon, when it is generally recognised that specialised justice is a better quality of justice and therefore the possibility of creating new specialised courts, in particular for trademarks and patents, should be considered instead of trying to abolish the only one that exists, and whose success is recognised by all. such a reform should be preceded by an impact study, which would clarify for the co-legislators - council and parliament - its need, its scope, its costs and other consequences. however, this study was never carried out. in the light of the irrationality of the council's proposal, i proposed in my report to reconstitute the position adopted by parliament at its first reading in april 2014 as the increase from 12 judges to 28 judges will not be well understood by european public opinion, as it would result in an increase in the union's structural expenditure of more than eur 20 million per year, simply because the council was not able to appoint the approved judges. at a time when many countries are undergoing strict austerity measures and the european union is proposing to reduce staff and cut public expenditure, increasing the union's structural public expenditure would set a bad example for the whole of europe. but the council was not amenable to this position and has maintained its position, and it is now up to parliament to accept or reject this claim on behalf of the european taxpayers whom we represent. in my report i also proposed absolute respect for gender parity in the recruitment of judges, but this rule was also rejected by the council on the grounds that the treaties do not allow its adoption, replacing it with a mere statement in the recitals, without any legal value. if the council's position is accepted by parliament, then we will have to assume that in the european union, effective gender equality is nothing more than a rhetorical proclamation, without normative content or binding legal force. we must therefore assume that the constitutional law of the union does not allow the realisation of a fundamental right which is, moreover, one of the founding values of the european union itself. that is why i also ask for the council's position to be rejected and for parliament to be returned to its first reading.
member of the commission.– madam president, i wish to thank members very much for their comments. the european commission will support the compromise between the european parliament and the council on the number of judges in the general court, and i think that the capacity of the court to hear the cases of citizens quickly and ensure a rapid settlement of disputes and clarification of legal issues is crucial. it is also linked to the previous debate we had here on the reform of electoral systems: it is about trust between the citizens, the population and european institutions. anyhow, needless to say, the commission welcomes the solution found to promote gender balance within the court, as we recognise gender balance as an important value within the european union.
madam president, commissioner, in the name of truth, it does not take more than 28 judges to solve any problem in the general court. these 28 judges are only the result of the council's inability to appoint the 12 judges it believes are necessary to solve its problems. from april 2014 to october 2014, the number of judges increased from 12 to 28. this is an insult to the intelligence of members and an insult to the intelligence and the interests of the citizens of the european union. in the name of truth, i say to this parliament here and now that the delays are not due to a lack of judges but to a lack of officials. commissioner, only one case has been waiting for more than a year to be translated. in 2014, 9 more referendums were appointed and this allowed the resolution of more than 100 cases in one year. what this parliament is doing is capitulating unconditionally to a dictate from the council, because the council is not able to appoint judges, a number of judges different from the number of member states, and therefore instead of appointing 12, it wants 28 more so that each state has 12 more judges. in the name of truth, this is an offence to the interests of the citizens of the european union, it is an offence to the taxpayers and it is an offence to the function of this parliament to look after the genuine interests of the european taxpayers - not to spend what is not necessary and this budget is not necessary. the alleged existence of claims for compensation of more than 27 million euros needs to be proven as valid. moreover, commissioner, if this reform is adopted, parliament, the european union, will spend more than 20 million euros every year, which means that every year it will pay what, even if the number of cases were true, it would only pay once. in the name of truth, this cannot happen in a democratic european union which respects the genuine interests of its citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the proposal to give member states the possibility of restricting or prohibiting the use of genetically modified organisms authorised by the european union in food or feed on their territory is a serious mistake and a political setback and must therefore be rejected. this proposal is a good example of where the principle of subsidiarity does not apply, given the practical impossibility of delimiting territorial boundaries in a single market framework, where the free movement of persons and goods is a basic principle. and this impossibility of delimiting borders, even if costly control systems were developed, would lead to a breakdown in transparency and certainty which would ultimately seriously damage the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the european union and weaken consumer confidence, both within and outside the european area. the european policy on genetically modified organisms must be that, a european policy, and in that sense the commission should present a proposal to revise the european policy on the authorization of these organisms, and it is not in this area of discharge that we need. we need more europe and all the knowledge available to protect our agricultural sector and our consumers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i have heard colleagues here on several occasions raise this important issue of air pollution and the various levels of air quality which obviously affect human health and the environment. and i think we all agree that we must find a clear, comprehensive and rapid response at the various institutional levels, but let me leave a note here on the present commission proposal. i think it falls a little short of what was expected, especially as regards the exceptional regimes for the outermost regions. that is why i think it is important to recall article 349 of the treaty of lisbon, which distinguishes the outermost regions from other regions of the union. it differentiates them by their distinct social and economic status, by their small size, by their insularity. and the outermost regions must and must be safeguarded through specific measures in the common policies of the union. however, i welcome this proposal because ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, we are faced with a piece of legislation which addresses one of the greatest challenges of our time. this challenge is to transform the starting paradigm of the industrial age, which has reached a dimension that does not oversee the world as we know it today. this challenge means reassessing our notions of progress and economic growth and integrating criteria such as the urgency of preserving our resources that are not infinite. this legislation is an incentive for technological innovation and should be implemented in harmony and coordination with other policies in the field of research and development, protection of biodiversity and climate change. this must be done with a view to parallel planning at all these levels, or we will jeopardise the transition to a low-carbon economy, the resilience of our resources and the quality of life of future generations.
the rapporteur. mr president, as i do every year, i have to make a technical statement. because of the complexity of the procedure, there are some technical adjustments that need to be put to the vote before the vote on the 2016 budget. budgetary comments, line 04 02 64, 'youth employment initiative': amendment no 1 435 will include the additional remarks, approved by the committee on budgets, on gender equality, education and training. figures, line 11 06 62 01, 'scientific advice and knowledge', amendment 478: payments will be adjusted to 14 064 771. new lines 18 04 01 01, 'europe for citizens': enhancing memory and capacity for civic participation at union level, and 18 04 01 02, 'european citizens' initiatives', amendment 1366: payments will be adjusted to eur 18 650 000 at the level of the draft budget on the first line and eur 500 000 on the second line. line 19 02 01, 'response to crisis and emerging crisis situations', amendment 995: payments will be adjusted to eur 156 914 703. item 21 02 07 04, 'food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture', amendment 1 373: payments will be adjusted to eur 89 783 000. the commission has also proposed that the amount of the payment be increased to eur 28 114 291 for line 21 02 07 05, 'migration and asylum', amendment 1 374. he also called for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the budget.
president of the council. mr president, i attended the vote to show the attention with which the luxembourg presidency is following the debate on the budget of the european union. parliament has just adopted a whole series of amendments, and i shall of course take them into account and report back to the council of ministers. we therefore take note of the differences between the position on the budget as adopted by the council and the amendments you have adopted today. therefore, in accordance with article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i agree to the convening of the conciliation committee by the president of the european parliament. this conciliation committee will meet for the first time on 9 november and the luxembourg presidency, together with the commission and parliament, will do everything possible to ensure that we can reach a conclusion by the end of the week, that is to say on 13 november this year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in april 2014, the council, the european union, the court of justice and the parliament agreed to increase the number of judges of the general court by 12 additional judges. in october of that year, six months later, the council proposed an increase of 28 judges because the members of the council could not agree on the appointment of 12 judges. the members are 28 and the judges to be appointed were 12. in my report i propose that we return to the first reading, that is to say that we approve the 12 judges again, because that is the number that solves the alleged problems in the court and not 28 judges, who solve a problem of the council and not of the general court. there are therefore two questions for the vote: either the council's position, which was the majority in the juri committee, or the rapporteur's position, which i endorsed in my report, which is to go back to the original proposal, to the first reading and approve only 12 judges, which was what the court initially asked for and which was necessary to solve the court's problems.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the court of justice of the european union plays a fundamental role in the application and interpretation of our legal rules and, in so doing, in the process of european integration. the reform of its status will go hand in hand with a strengthening of the values and legal principles that bind our states and our citizens. without reform, however, the backlog of cases before the court and the increasing average length of proceedings are gradually but surely undermining the effectiveness of our judicial system. this reform will solve, for today and tomorrow, the problems facing the court of justice, which our citizens and our businesses are entitled to expect in a union based on the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, this compromise text also contains important elements, serious efforts to achieve a better balance between men and women in the composition of the court. at the end of the three phases of reform, the court of justice of the union will be composed of two judges from each member state. therefore, in order to achieve equality between men and women, which is an objective of the european union under article 3 of the treaty on european union, the governments of the member states should, to the extent possible, ensure an equal presence of men and women in the process of nominating candidates for the office of judge of the general court, in accordance with article 254 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
i would like to say that i would like to withdraw my name from this report because it is not the report i have drawn up. whoever wrote this report should sign it, not me.
in writing. ‒ over the past few months, we have tabled a total of 128 amendments to the draft budget for 2016 presented by the european commission and amended by the council. we have tabled 13 amendments in plenary, each of which has been endorsed by at least 40 members: the creation of a programme to support a negotiated exit from the euro; the creation of a programme to support countries involved in the troika; the strengthening of support for small and medium-sized enterprises; the strengthening of the youth employment initiative, conditional on the creation of permanent jobs with rights; the strengthening of the fruit (66%) and milk distribution schemes in schools (100%); the strengthening of the life environment and climate action programme the environment sub-programme; the strengthening of translation and interpretation expenditure in the eu institutions; the strengthening of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige); the strengthening of support for the peace process and financial assistance to palestine. these proposals, which vary in content and scope, are based on a firm determination to defend national interests and the need to affirm other policies and a different direction for europe.
‒ the 2016 budget fully reflects the political priorities, specifically internal and external solidarity, as well as increasing competitiveness through the creation of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship across the union. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the migration and refugee crisis, for which the financial resources needed to meet the political challenges and enable the union to achieve results and respond effectively to these crises should be mobilised in the union budget as a matter of priority and with a high degree of urgency. i believe that it is essential to make a greater effort to fill the gaps in the union's economy by increasing competitiveness, growth and quality employment, and i also support the continuation of the youth employment initiative, because of the fundamental role of this programme in the fight against unemployment. i commend the work of mr josé manuel fernandes for the complexity, the explanation and the consensus it has produced.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget for the financial year 2016, as i considered that parliament's position adequately reflects european political priorities, seeking to mobilise the resources needed to enable the eu to respond to the important challenges it faces, in particular with regard to the migration and refugee crisis, job creation and the development of businesses and entrepreneurship. in this respect, it should of course welcome the comprehensive package of amendments presented to provide a response to the migration crisis, both internally and externally. i would also like to highlight the proposals put forward to strengthen the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes and to ensure the continuity of the youth employment initiative. the importance of the emergency support package of eur 500 million for milk producers and the relevance of the joint payment plan for 2015-2016 agreed between parliament, the council and the commission should also be stressed in order to reduce the volume of overdue payments for the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes.
in writing. - my opposition to death bull races and other blood bullfights is public, and i have signed a petition on the matter. i abstained on amendments nos 22 and 435 because the proposal in question is inconsistent, since there is no european funding for death-bull races. as such, i understand that as a member of the european parliament, despite the acknowledged good intentions behind the proposal, it is part of a false premise, which in my view is not a subject within the eu budget and a diversion which, when extended to other animal welfare issues, which i support in full, ends up creating serious noise problems with out-of-context, short-sighted and poorly formalised material.
‒ this budget reflects the present state of the european union. a project that is stranded in a sea of uncertainty, lack of mutual trust and disincentive for countries to contribute to the budget. this budget, short for such ambition, will only fuel the disillusionment of those who still believe in this european project. we have welcomed the efforts to build the best possible budget within the narrow limits imposed by the refusal of the major countries to contribute to strengthening the budget, without which social and territorial cohesion policies are not possible. we have no illusions about a project that puts everything on supply-side measures and believes that investment will fall from the sky through a strategic investment fund without credibility and that will only strengthen public-private partnerships and the concentration of investment in the richest regions. it is also worth remembering that many of the most hotly debated issues in this budget, such as support for farmers and refugees, stem from the wrong policies adopted in recent years and stem from the neoliberal and neocolonial matrix that characterizes this european union, which is now in the midst of a crisis of values.
in writing. - i voted against the indrek tarand amendment, as i did last year, because it is the result of a mistake. if the community budget had any provision for funding bullfighting, it would make sense to vote against it. it is not for the european union to intervene in these matters. they are exclusively a matter for national jurisdiction. the fact is that the community budget, and in particular the cap (common agricultural policy), does not finance bullfighting or bull riding. this is clear in the law and has been reiterated to the european parliament by the director-general for agriculture and rural development. 3. cap support has for several years been translated into direct aid to farmers who, on their land, have the autonomy to develop the most appropriate agricultural activities, including livestock production and cattle, depending on objective conditions (soil, climate, water, size, etc.) and the market. the usefulness of this proposal seems to be to raise the awareness of the european parliament about the fight against bullfighting, but the procedure used is not the appropriate one and violates the principle of subsidiarity, since it is not a matter of community competence.
‒ this budget proposal is realistic, responsible and credible. the european union must ensure greater competitiveness and economic growth, and it must respond to the refugee crisis. the budget provides for eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion in payments, of which 94% is for investment and only 6% for administrative expenditure. job creation is the central priority of this proposal for the general budget of the european union for 2016. i therefore propose that the youth employment initiative be continued and i propose measures to support economic development with a particular focus on strengthening the competitiveness of the economy through what is referred to as 3 e{s) employment, enterprises, entrepreneurship. we have therefore strengthened the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, the connecting europe facility, the cosme programme, the erasmus+ programme and the programme for employment and social innovation. we have also increased by eur 500 million the support for farmers to cope with the milk crisis. the refugee issue must be seen from an internal and an external perspective. on the one hand we have the obligation to welcome and integrate, but at the same time we have to solve the problem at its source. our solidarity, both internally and externally, is an obligation. to this end, we propose an additional amount of eur 1.2 billion.
‒ with this resolution, the european parliament adopts its position on the proposed eu budget for 2016. the resolution agrees with the commission proposal, as subsequently amended by the council and with the amendments introduced by parliament. our disagreement on the draft budget is a fundamental disagreement. obviously, for that reason, we cannot but vote against this report. we do not ignore the "original sin" of this budget: the large financial envelope that determines it the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, the lowest in the history of the eu is far from being able to perform any relevant redistributive function capable of fulfilling the much-touted principle of economic and social cohesion. but even taking account of this inconvenience, which is not negligible, another budget was possible. the amendments we have tabled demonstrate this. these are proposals that show that it is possible to strengthen existing programmes, aimed at cohesion and the social and environmental areas, while cutting back in other areas, such as the eu's external interventionism, militarism and institutional propaganda. they were another route to europe. a course of rejection of the budgetary treaty, which puts on the agenda the need for debt restructuring, alongside the dissolution of emu and the recovery of monetary and budgetary sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and on the agreements reached: parliament's proposal will strengthen the commission's proposal by eur 2.8 billion. taking into account the previous implementation rates as well as the foreseeable future absorption capacities, these are realistic amounts which will allow for proper policy implementation and allow the eu to ensure adequate funding of its priority areas. as regards the financing of bullfighting, i would point out that the cap does not finance bullfighting-related activities.
‒ the 2016 budget is part of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and may be adjusted in line with the priorities set by the commission, parliament and the council for the coming year. i vote in favour of this report on the 2016 budget, which prioritises support for refugees and strengthening european competitiveness through the employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship axis. employment must indeed be the top priority next year, and only by strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises and by increasing the budget of the european funds under horizon 2020 and the cosme programme will this be possible. i regard as extremely positive the reinforcement of eur 1.3 billion at the level of horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, which were used in the constitution of the juncker plan guarantee, and adding eur 473 million to allow the continuation of the youth employment initiative.
‒ parliament's position on the 2016 budget appropriately reflects european political priorities, in particular with regard to the migration and refugee crisis, job creation and the development of businesses and entrepreneurship. this is a responsible proposal, containing important measures such as: the package of amendments presented to provide a response to the migration crisis, both in its internal and external aspects; the strengthening of the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes; the continuation of the youth employment initiative; and the emergency support package of eur 500 million in aid to milk producers. in order for the eu to be able to respond to the important policy challenges it faces and to honour its commitments, in particular as regards the reduction of the volume of overdue payments relating to the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes, it is necessary that the necessary financial resources be mobilised. in this sense, we cannot go along with a set of cuts proposed by the council, and it is important, moreover, to leave here a call for agreement to be reached on the use of all the flexibility mechanisms available in the multiannual financial framework regulation, including the full mobilisation of the flexibility instrument.
in writing. - my opposition to death bull races and other blood bullfights is public, and i have signed a petition on the matter. i abstained on amendments nos 22 and 435 because the proposal in question is inconsistent, since there is no european funding for death-bull races. as such, i understand that as a member of the european parliament, despite the acknowledged good intentions behind the proposal, it is part of a false premise, which in my view is not a subject within the eu budget and a diversion which, when extended to other animal welfare issues, which i support in full, ends up creating serious noise problems with out-of-context, short-sighted and poorly formalised matters.
‒ this budget reflects the present state of the european union. a project that is stranded in a sea of uncertainty, lack of mutual trust and which holds back countries from contributing to the budget. this budget, short for such ambition, will only fuel the disillusionment of those who still believe in this european project. we have noted with satisfaction the efforts to build the best possible budget within the narrow limits imposed by the refusal of the major countries to contribute to strengthening the budget without which social and territorial cohesion policies are not possible. we have no illusions about a project that puts everything on the supply side and believes that investment will fall from the sky through a strategic investment fund without credibility and that will only strengthen public-private partnerships and the concentration of investment in the richest regions. it is also worth remembering that many of the most hotly debated issues in this budget, such as support for farmers and refugees, stem from the wrong policies of recent years and stem from the neoliberal and neocolonial matrix that characterizes this european union, which is now in the midst of a crisis of values.
in the draft budget for 2016, the intention to strengthen strong europe is clear, now with the argument of a rapid response to the refugee crisis. the same goes for the intention to strengthen the eu's 'competitiveness' among the major economic groups under the pretext of fighting unemployment and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises to which these funds do not reach. once again we see that the budget is not provided with sufficient resources to meet the need for economic recovery and the objectives of social and territorial cohesion. the budget would play a decisive role in mitigating and even reversing the continuing dynamic of divergence and widening inequalities between member states. but he never fulfilled that role because of his meagerness. the eu does not need a restrictive budget. it is regrettable that this budgetary package once again fails to serve the development interests of each member state, revealing the enormous hypocrisy of those who insist on the same old guidelines, refusing any kind of solidarity between member states. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ a reform of the court of justice of the european union is urgently needed because of the over-working of the court. the court pointed to the need for 12 judges in addition to the 28 it already has, one per member state. however, the member states in the council could not agree on which countries would be entitled to an additional judge. they decided to double the number of judges (up to 56), a number clearly higher than that proposed by the court itself, which represents a colossal and unnecessary expense for the european public purse. i voted in favour of an increase in line with what had been recommended by the real needs of the court's functioning - up to 40 judges - noting the justified increase in the number of judges and avoiding a useless and megalomaniacal decision. the european union must take decisions, not in accordance with national egocentricities which prevent an efficient decision, but in accordance with the real administrative needs of the union.
‒ this report constitutes a second reading of the proposal for a regulation on the reform of the statute of the court of justice. the council proposed two changes to the organisation of the general court: (1) that the number of judges at the general court should be fixed at 56 at the end of a three-stage procedure; (2) that the civil service tribunal, which has jurisdiction to rule at first instance in proceedings concerning the european union civil service, should be closed and the judges transferred to the general court. parliament did not reject the council's proposals outright, but merely amended the proposed timetable for increasing the number of judges by introducing more steps and adding the need for gender balance in the appointment of judges. for our part, we do not agree with the proposal. we are against the closure of the civil service tribunal, since under article 270 tfeu the tribunal has jurisdiction to hear disputes between the eu and the approximately 35 000 civil servants. we also believe that simply increasing the number of judges will not solve the problem of the overload of cases facing the general court, beyond the disagreement over the proposed method of selection.
‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union to increase the number of judges of the general court. parliament recognised that over the years the number of cases initiated has been increasing, with the consequence that the number of pending cases has increased significantly and that the processing of pending cases has been undesirably lengthy.
‒ the 2016 budget fully reflects the political priorities, specifically internal and external solidarity, as well as increasing competitiveness through the creation of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship across the union. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the migration and refugee crisis, which should be the subject of the financial resources needed in the union budget to meet the political challenges and enable the union to achieve results and respond effectively to these crises, as a matter of priority and with a high degree of urgency. i believe that it is essential to make a greater effort to fill the gaps in the union's economy by increasing competitiveness, growth and quality employment, and i also support the continuation of the youth employment initiative, because of the fundamental role of this programme in the fight against unemployment. i commend the work of josé manuel fernandes for the complexity, the explanation and the consensus it has gathered.
in writing. this report concerns the amendment of protocol 3 to the statute of the court of justice of the european union. the case concerns a legislative initiative launched by the cjeu in 2011 for the appointment of 12 additional judges to the high court. the european parliament approved the request at first reading, but the procedure was blocked at council level. in october 2014, the cjeu therefore proposed the appointment, in three stages, of 28 additional judges to the general court and the abolition of the civil service tribunal. the council accepted these proposals at first reading and it is now for parliament to give its opinion at second reading. the need and impact of these proposals do not appear to be sufficiently documented. the best course of action would therefore be to reject the council's position. however, since the amendments tabled to that effect have not been passed, i felt that i should take a constructive position, by supporting the proposed increase in judges. this is without prejudice to the fact that the situation may be reassessed in the second and third phases of the enlargement of the high court and the court of justice must submit, within five years, a report on the functioning of the high court, in particular to assess the need and effectiveness of the increase in the number of judges.
in writing. - i declare that i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by mr marinho and mr pinto to the report on the number of judges of the general court of the court of justice of the european union, as i consider that the need to double the current number of judges is not duly justified, especially at a time when parliament and other european institutions are promoting measures to contain expenditure.
the european parliament and the council have agreed to the adoption of a new regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities. the civil service tribunal, which has jurisdiction to rule at first instance in civil service cases, should be closed and the judges transferred to the general court on the basis of a future legislative request to be made by the court of justice. it should be noted that simply increasing the number of judges will not solve the problem of the overload of cases - it will be necessary to increase the number of assistant judges, as they are the ones who do most of the work.
‒ this report constitutes a second reading of the proposal for a regulation on the reform of the statute of the court of justice. the council proposed two changes to the organisation of the general court: (1) that the number of judges at the general court should be fixed at 56 at the end of a three-stage procedure; (2) that the civil service tribunal, which has jurisdiction to rule at first instance in proceedings concerning the european union civil service, should be closed and the judges transferred to the general court. parliament did not reject the european council's proposals outright, but merely amended the proposed timetable for increasing the number of judges by introducing more steps and adding the need for gender balance in the appointment of judges. we voted against the report because we are opposed to both the european council's proposal and the european parliament's proposal: we are against the closure of the civil service tribunal, since under article 270 tfeu the tribunal has jurisdiction to hear disputes between the eu and the approximately 35 000 civil servants. we also believe that simply increasing the number of judges will not solve the problem of the overburden of cases.
‒ the european parliament and the council agreed to transpose into union law a number of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean which provides for an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation in order to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of rupture. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting was adopted by the council on 14 december. the proposal is to authorise a limited number of vessels to make exceptional use of trawls in the black sea coastal zone.
in writing. we rejected the report at first reading, a vote which was fundamentally weighted by an insufficient weighting of the criteria for conservation of resources. as we said then, the council's proposal is a step back from the gfcm proposal. it is worth noting that the proposal allows member states to derogate from the gfcm proposals, provided they have an appropriate national management framework with a well-defined fishing authorisation scheme and spatial and temporal protection measures appropriate to the limited exploitation of certain red coral colonies. these derogations may be corrected by the commission if the assumptions are not fulfilled. a minimum depth for capture is defined, capture is now allowed only with a hammer in self-diving (which at 50 metres deep is quite conditioning), minimum capture dimensions are defined, the use of rovs is prohibited except in very particular circumstances, namely research. trawling is prohibited in the coastal vicinity but derogations are allowed to member states in the same logic as above. impacts on birds, cetaceans, turtles, seals and sharks are reasonably addressed with apparently adequate measures.
‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendation for the adoption of a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1343/2001 on certain provisions applicable to fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. this is an appropriate framework for cooperation between the parties in order to promote the conservation and rational management of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. as the rapporteur points out, certain member states which have national frameworks in place may maintain them, but where the commission considers that a national framework does not meet the conditions laid down in the regulation, it may request that the regulation be amended.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) aims to promote the development, conservation and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea by agreeing with the european parliament and the council on the transposition of the various recommendations made by the gfcm. the european parliament has already adopted the motion for a resolution and has achieved its proposed objectives, in that the gfcm agreement respects its prerogatives and provides for sufficient protection for fisheries in the area concerned. i am in favour of the recommendation for second reading because the adoption of this type of measure implies the adoption of sufficient levels of sustainability to protect it from marine resources and takes into account the measures that are already being implemented at national level by the member states.
‒ established in 1949, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation in order to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of rupture. at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the gfcm adopted a set of recommendations with a view to the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area, and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, informal negotiations were opened on 13 january 2015 with a view to swiftly reaching an agreement at second reading on the incorporation of those measures into regulation (eu) no 1343/2011. after two rounds of trilogue, an agreement was reached between parliament and the council, and now, following the recommendation of the pech committee, the council's position at first reading must be adopted without amendment. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as regards parliament's negotiating position, in which only details of the fishing operation with nets in the black sea are changed, i have decided to contribute to the continuation of the negotiations with the council and the commission at trilogue level. since this is not the closure of the negotiation but the negotiating mandate for second reading, there was no formal vote.
the proposal allows member states to derogate from the gfcm proposals, provided they have an appropriate national management framework with a well-defined fishing authorisation scheme and protection measures with a time frame appropriate to the limited exploitation of certain red coral colonies. these derogations may be corrected by the committee if the premises are not fulfilled. set a minimum depth for capture. catching is now allowed only with hammer in autonomous diving. it also sets minimum catch dimensions and prohibits the use of rovs except in very specific circumstances, such as research. it prohibits trawling in the coastal vicinity but allows member states to derogate on the same logic as above.
the proposal allows member states to derogate, within the framework of the gfcm agreement proposals, provided they have an appropriate national management framework with a well-defined fishing authorisation scheme and adequate spatial and temporal protection measures for the limited exploitation of certain red coral colonies. these derogations may be corrected by the european commission if the assumptions are not fulfilled. a minimum depth for catching is defined - catching is now only allowed with a hammer in self-diving and minimum catching dimensions are defined. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to derogate from the rules on the fishing of certain species. these are generally positive measures.
‒ the proposal did not contain sufficiently credible solutions to break the permanent deadlock in the member states' expert committees responsible for the authorisation of this type of gmo. the decision, in the event of a deadlock (as has always been the case), is then left to the commission. since parliament is legally unable to amend this proposal in such a way as to change it radically (by aligning it with the demands that european citizens have put to the members of parliament, namely greater control of these authorizations by democratically elected bodies such as parliament or governments), i voted against this proposal, requiring the commission to submit a recast of it.
in writing. ‒ on 22 april 2015, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory (com ((2015) 0177). the commission proposes that member states may restrict or prohibit, under certain conditions, the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after such products have been authorised (opt-out). this proposal was not preceded by an assessment of all possible impacts and available alternatives. there are serious concerns about the far-reaching consequences of the proposal for the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and for the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the union. i voted to reject the committee's proposal.
‒ the european commission confirms itself as a representative of the interests of multinational agribusinesses. in view of the growing reservations of citizens about the consumption of genetically modified organisms (gmos), the discrediting of the eu's gmo authorisation mechanism, its proximity and network of relations with industry, the commission is putting forward a proposal which is nothing short of a major achievement. the conditions imposed on member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after such products have been authorised (the so-called 'opt-out') are in fact impracticable. we therefore voted in favour of this report, which rejects the commission's proposal. even if the underlying reasons for rejecting this report may be diverse. recognising the rightness and necessity of the principle (that the use of genetically modified food and feed should be allowed to be restricted or prohibited), the commission should make a new proposal and should, for the sake of elementary seriousness and responsibility, not issue new authorisations and not renew existing ones until this new process is completed.
‒ the proposal for a regulation on the use of genetically modified food and feed is of the utmost importance, as food safety is at stake. i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal. i share the rapporteur's view of the concerns expressed about the inevitable consequences for the functioning of the internal market in both food and animal products. i urge that there be a thorough debate on this matter, on the consequences and the associated risks.
‒ the present proposal submitted by the commission concerns the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, under certain circumstances, after such products have been authorised (opt-out). the adoption of this proposal would have a negative impact in several areas, notably in the european agricultural sector, where there is free movement and no border controls, and the economy of the sector within the internal market and the wto's own rules for trade would also be affected. the competitiveness of the agricultural sector is at stake, with the european union dependent on the supply of genetically modified proteins, a regression in the economic progress achieved to date. i am therefore against the adoption of this proposal because it will affect economic regulation and affect the legal certainty of the european agricultural sector, and also have implications for economic relations with third countries.
the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease, in particular by reducing the number of cases of infectious diseases. the envi members expressed serious concerns about this proposal, firstly because it was not preceded by an impact assessment, but also because they considered that this proposal would have negative consequences for the functioning of the internal market for food and feed and the competitiveness of the eu agricultural sector, and would be practically impossible to implement, as border controls no longer exist in the eu agricultural sector and their reintroduction would represent a setback. in these terms and since these concerns appear to be fully justified, i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal.
‒ this proposal, which was rejected by the european parliament today, does not serve the interests of a more competitive agricultural sector open to scientific innovation. scientific innovation must be framed without any taboos to inform and serve as best as possible the political decision, in defence of the common good, the future of citizens and, for this, the resilience of our resources.
in writing. ‒ this proposal to give member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified organisms authorised by the european union in food or feed on their territory is legally absurd given the practical impossibility of delimiting territorial boundaries in a framework where there is free movement of persons and goods. in this way, it can only be interpreted as another cover-up of the commission's obvious commitment to the gmo lobby. instead of refusing to allow gmos into the community in the face of scientific evidence, it pretends to give powers to the national states knowing in advance that it is practically impossible.
‒ i voted in favour of the report rejecting the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. the commission proposal considers that member states should be able to restrict or prohibit, under certain conditions, the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after such products have been authorised. however, serious concerns remain, in particular as regards the lack of an impact assessment, the compatibility of the measures taken by the member states with the internal market and world trade organisation rules, and the feasibility of the proposal. as regards the union's agricultural sector, there are serious concerns about the consequences of the proposal for the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and for the competitiveness of the sector, as the european union remains highly dependent on the supply of genetically modified proteins and the proposal is likely to have negative indirect effects on imports. the proposal is also virtually impossible to implement, since border controls have ceased to exist in the agricultural sector in the union and their introduction would be a setback to the progress already made.
‒ the union rules on novel foods were established by regulation (ec) no 258/97 of the european parliament and of the council and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001, which recognises that any novel food or food ingredient requires a prior authorisation before it can be placed on the market in order to preserve a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests. in the light of rapid scientific and technological progress in the food sector, there is a range of novel foods and food ingredients, such as foods containing, consisting of or produced from micro-organisms, fungi and algae, or foods with an intentionally modified primary molecular structure, which do not fall within the scope of the definition of 'novel food' in the current legislation. i am voting in favour of this report which seeks to fill this gap and adapt the definition of novel foods to these realities while reducing the administrative burden on applicants by simplifying and rationalising the regulatory authorisation process.
in writing. the new legislation provides for a new eu-wide authorisation procedure for novel foods, rules on the placing on the market of food derived from cloned animals, control of nanomaterials and restrictions on animal testing. 'new food' means food which has not been used in any significant way for human consumption before 1997, for example, food consisting of or produced from micro-organisms, fungi and algae. the report says the new eu-wide authorisation procedure for novel foods should be more efficient and faster. the long time-consuming process and the costs of submitting an application have created a barrier to innovation and participation by small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the new legislation also regulates the placing on the market of food derived from cloned animals, defines what nanomaterials are and imposes restrictions on animal testing.
in writing. ‒ novel foods are foods that were not part of the human diet of a significant number of people within the eu before 1997. in 2008, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the legislative discussion focused on the provisions applicable to nanomaterials, cloning of food-producing animals, traditional foods from third countries, criteria to be examined for risk studies and management and procedures for the authorisation of novel foods. this new proposal has several problematic points, including the definition and clarification of the designation of novel food, the role of national agencies in the authorisation process and with regard to delegated acts. another controversial issue is the need for long-term monitoring of the placing on the market of these foods and their impact. unfortunately, the outcome of the trilogue does not reflect all these concerns, and is better than the european commission's proposal, as it includes concerns about animal welfare and the labelling of these foods. there are other points that should have been included and were not. the principle of precaution is not guaranteed in this legislative proposal. reasons for our vote against.
‒ authorisation to place a novel food on the market in the union should be granted provided that food safety is fully respected. under legislation approved by the european parliament, authorisation procedures for the introduction of novel foods will be centralised at european level through the european food safety authority. it shall be the body responsible for the assessment and certification of the admission of such food. greater and better regulation is essential to ensure that a high and demanding level of food safety is met in the european union.
‒ the present proposal submitted by the commission concerns the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, under certain circumstances, after such products have been authorised (opt-out). the adoption of this proposal would have a negative impact in several areas, notably in the european agricultural sector, where there is free movement and no border controls, and the economy of the sector within the internal market and the wto's own rules for trade would also be affected. the competitiveness of the agricultural sector is at stake, with the european union dependent on the supply of genetically modified proteins, a regression in the economic progress achieved to date. i am therefore against the adoption of this proposal because it will affect economic regulation and affect the legal certainty of the european agricultural sector, and also have implications for economic relations with third countries.
‒ the rules on so-called novel foods (i.e. foods which were not used in a significant way for human consumption in the eu before may 1997) are currently set out in regulation (ec) no 258/97 and regulation (ec) no 1852/2001. in view of the scientific and technological progress since the entry into force of these regulations, the commission submitted in december 2013 a proposal to review and adapt the existing regulation, which was approved with amendments by envi in november 2014. following interinstitutional negotiations between december 2014 and june 2015, an agreement has been reached. in line with the commitment reached, the new rules aim to address the main concerns raised in the broad consultation of industry, namely: clarification of the definition of novel food; subjecting novel foods to a harmonised assessment and authorisation process; simplification and rationalisation of the authorisation process; and providing for a robust data protection regime. the new legislation also transitionally regulates the placing on the market of food derived from cloned animals and defines what nanomaterials are. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 258/97 of the european parliament and of the council and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001 are the legislative instruments establishing the union rules on novel foods. it is commonly accepted by consumers, food business operators and policy-makers that any novel food or food ingredient requires prior authorisation before it is placed on the market in order to preserve a high level of protection of human health, its traceability and, of course, the interests of consumers. however, scientific and technological progress in the food sector has shown the need to revise the definition of 'novel food' in regulation (ec) no 258/97 to include, inter alia, novel foods produced from micro-organisms, fungi and algae. i therefore support the report by mr james nicholson on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to close this gap by adapting the definition to new foods on the market and at the same time reducing unnecessary administrative burdens in the regulatory authorisation process, in order to promote innovation and the competitiveness of the european food sector.
‒ this new proposal has several problematic points, including the definition and clarification of the designation of a novel food, the role of national agencies in the authorisation process and with regard to implementing versus delegated acts. another controversial issue is the need for long-term monitoring of the placing on the market of these foods and their impact, the implementation of a transparent procedure for the introduction of foods without a history of safe use in the eu to be applied, without limiting the safety control and information to consumers (maximum amount of consumption, adverse effects), leading to informed choices and consumption regarding the use of new foods not being deceived by the advertised properties. in addition, the precautionary principle is not guaranteed in this legislative proposal.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods, as the proposed regulation no longer covers food derived from cloned animals, as this subject is covered by another area of packaging. as such, i agree that the new proposal on novel foods is only intended to review the current legislation on novel foods in order to update and simplify the current authorisation procedures and to take account of recent developments in union law, thus creating a centralised authorisation system, which should provide greater certainty to applicants for authorisations for novel foods and simplify and speed up the authorisation process. however, despite the need to simplify the current authorisation process, the european union should also give priority to safeguarding food safety and consumer health at all stages of the authorisation process for novel foods, and should offer its citizens a full range of safeguards relating to the safety of food placed on the internal market, and food from third countries should also be required to meet standards equivalent to those required for food in the european union.
in writing. ‒ novel foods are foods which were not part of the human diet of a significant number of people within the european union before 15 may 1997, and include traditional food from a third country provided that for at least 25 years it has been part of the diet and customs of a significant number of its population. the new proposal has several problems, notably in the definition and clarification of the designation of novel foods or the role of national agencies in the authorisation process. other controversial issues are the need for long-term monitoring of the placing on the market of these foods and their impact, the implementation of a transparent procedure for the introduction of foods without a history of safe use in the eu to be applied, without limiting the safety control and information to consumers. unfortunately, the outcome of the trilogue does not reflect all these concerns. it is better than the european commission's proposal, since it includes the concerns about animal welfare and the labelling of these foods, other points should have been included.
in writing. - i voted in favour of limiting emissions of acidifying eutrophication pollutants, among others, to help achieve the union's air quality objectives, thereby minimising negative impacts on human health and the environment. biodiversity in ecosystems will also benefit greatly from the control of these substances as their deposition to the bottom of lakes and soil will be reduced. this directive is all the more important as it will align these emissions with the union's 2030 climate and energy targets and send a positive signal on the eve of the paris climate summit, where an international agreement is expected to be reached to effectively combat man-made climate change. i also voted in favour of the key votes relating to the introduction of methane and ammonia emission targets, since a large part of air pollution comes from emissions of these gases from agriculture. the establishment of binding targets for the reduction of these emissions by the member states by 2025 was also voted in favour.
‒ this legislative proposal sets new national emission limit values for certain air pollutants with the aim of reducing threats to human health, the environment and the climate. poor air quality contributes to premature death, sickness absence from work, significant health costs, lost productivity, lost crop yields and damage to buildings. in europe, the total external costs to society related to health and caused by air pollution are estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. according to the report, member states should at least limit their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvoc), ammonia (nh3), particulate matter (pm2,5) and mercury (hg). the containment of non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) and methane (ch4) should be placed in the broader context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ for pressing environmental and public health reasons, air quality concerns everyone. it is by its nature a cross-border issue which demands immediate action after years of political neglect. the proposal revises the 2001 directive on national emission limit values for certain air pollutants. it's part of the clean air package. it is proposed to amend the emission limits for air pollutants, in particular sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds, for 2020 and 2030. mercury has also been added to this list, with limits for this element to be introduced only from 2020. in addition, the scope of the directive is extended to include particulate matter (pm2,5) from 2020 and, with a view to convergence with climate legislation, methane from 2030. the new 2030 targets in the proposal are the most complex element, with different limits for each member state and each pollutant, based on achieving 70% of the maximum technically feasible reductions in health impacts as defined by the who. we have supported this report, although there are some contradictory elements. we reiterate that the regulatory approach must prevail over market approaches.
‒ the permitting of emissions of certain air pollutants should be subject to binding reduction commitments. air pollution is a serious public health problem, causing around 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year, and it is essential that risks or threats to health and the environment are controlled. the report setting new emission limit values for certain air pollutants, different from those proposed by the european commission, is therefore approved. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council.
‒ high air quality is a design that takes on a cross-border dimension in the context of public health and environmental protection. as such, this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament and of the council aims to revise directive 2003/35/ec on national emission limit values for certain air pollutants by setting new emission limit values for 2020 and 2030 for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic non-methane compounds. this proposal further extends the scope of the directive to include particulate matter from 2020 and methane from 2030. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels. however, the key is to enforce it, taking into account the negative impacts of these emissions on health and on the increase in air pollution. it should also be noted that this proposal is smarter and simpler, reduces administrative costs for businesses and member states, and is consistent with other pillars of european policy, which is why i voted in favour.
‒ we are facing a legislative text that embraces one of the greatest challenges of our time. this challenge is to transform the starting paradigm of the industrial age to a dimension that does not oversee the world as we know it today. this challenge means reassessing our notions of progress and economic growth and integrating criteria such as the urgency of preserving our resources, which are not infinite. this legislation is an incentive for technological innovation and should be implemented in harmony and coordination with other policies in the field of research and development, protection of biodiversity and climate change. this must be done with a view to parallel evolution at all these levels, or we will jeopardise the transition to a low-carbon economy, the resilience of our resources and the quality of life of future generations.
‒ air quality is a cross-border issue that deeply affects all citizens and requires immediate action after years of political neglect. on 18 december 2013, the commission published its long-awaited clean air package. the proposal to repeal and replace this directive amends the union regime as regards national emission limits for air pollutants for 4 new pollutants, namely for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030. mercury has also been added to this list, with limits for this element to be introduced only from 2020. finally, it should be noted that these new emission targets contained in the air quality standards will be redundant if we do not see a clear political will to reduce pollution from the main sources.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, considering that air quality is a transboundary issue with significant implications for human health and the environment, which deeply affects all citizens of the european union and requires immediate action. after years of political neglect, air pollution is now emerging on the political agenda as a serious environmental and public health problem, mainly due to the volkswagen case. moreover, although work has been done to reduce air pollution in the union, many member states have not yet reached agreed standards and the european union itself remains far from its long-term objective. in this respect, the current commission proposal is highly relevant as it replaces the existing directive by setting new emission limit values for 2020 and 2030 and requiring member states to adopt national air pollution control programmes. however, while the limit values set out in the report should encourage emission reductions, they should also be set at a realistic level, based on concrete data, and not having a disproportionate impact on any sector.
‒ air quality is a cross-border issue that affects all citizens. on 18 december 2013, the commission published its long-awaited clean air package, which consists of four elements: a clean air programme for europe; a proposal for a decision to ratify the 2012 amendment to the gothenburg protocol to the unece convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on behalf of the eu; a proposal for a new directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants, such as large-scale power plants for large buildings, and small industrial installations; and finally the legislative proposal on which this report is based, which revises the 2001 directive on national emission limit values for certain atmospheric pollutants. the proposal to repeal and replace this directive amends the eu regime with regard to national emission limits for air pollutants for 4 new pollutants, namely for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030. mercury has also been added to this list, with limits for this element to be introduced only from 2020. we voted yes.
‒ the european citizens' initiative, introduced by the treaty of lisbon, is a new political right of european citizens, allowing for a closer rapprochement of the institutions of the european union and therefore also essential for the deepening of european democracy. since 2012, when it came into force, 51 registration requests have been made, involving 6 million citizens, but only 3 initiatives have reached the final stage of the procedure. moreover, the european ombudsman and the european court of justice were also called upon to settle disputes during this period. it seems to me therefore clear that there is ample room for improvement the commission presented an evaluation report this year, which highlights the problems of operation. this report on implementation, which i am voting for, contributes to this diagnosis and suggests improvements, thus anticipating the proposal for the revision of this instrument. among the various measures proposed, i would highlight the need for further harmonisation of the procedure, an improvement in the technologies and online platforms used or a single point of contact in each member state. i believe it is essential to encourage participatory democracy and bring citizens closer to the european union. for this, the european citizens' initiative is essential and its improvement in these first years of natural and desirable operation.
‒ the european citizens' initiative was conceived as a tool to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in the launch of legislative initiatives. it is clear that whatever the criteria for success, it has not yet emerged, since there has not yet been a single initiative that has given rise to legislation. the commission report lists 51 initiatives. the objective of this report is to seek to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative in order to make it more user-friendly by removing some of the obstacles that have proved to be a source of difficulties for organisers of european citizens' initiatives.
in writing. ‒ six years after its formal institution in the treaty of lisbon, the discrediting of this instrument, known as participatory democracy, is evident. the stated purpose of this report is to contribute to the rehabilitation of the european citizens' initiative. this is a goal we reject. life has proved what we said when the treaty of lisbon was adopted. from the outset, the initiative's aim - and the propaganda that accompanied it attests to this - was to make the treaty look like something it is not and never was: something that is in line with democracy, the will and participation of the people. the so-called european citizens' initiative was an attempt (obviously unsuccessful) to legitimize an entire structureally undemocratic edifice. let us not forget that the treaty which enshrines this initiative has conspicuously escaped the scrutiny of the people through referendums. it was approved and ratified on the backs of the citizens whose participation it claims to welcome. the report - which we obviously rejected - contains some interesting elements, because they are illuminating. of more than half a hundred attempts, only three have met the strict criteria set to make this 'citizen participation' acceptable. and even in these cases, after the effort and resources expended, the initiatives have not had any follow-up - in the case of the initiative in defence of public water.
‒ the european citizens' initiative is an important vehicle for participatory democracy. introduced by the treaty of lisbon, it provides the possibility of direct participation in the process of european integration. this report takes a number of steps to remove obstacles which have proved to be a source of difficulties for organisers of european citizens' initiatives. it is important that the experience of recent years be used to improve the mechanism in order to bring citizens closer to the european institutions.
‒ the european citizens' initiative plays an important role in the democratic participation of european citizens, enabling them to communicate directly with the institutions of the european union and to participate actively in the development of european policies and legislation. this report aims to improve the regulatory conditions for the european citizens' initiative, by closing current gaps and making this political right an essential instrument of european democracy, leading to greater effective participation of citizens in the european context. the development and progress of the european union must be linked to the ideals and aspirations of european citizens, and it is important to facilitate their access to the initiative and to make it known to all through various means. i am in favour of this report because it plays an essential role in promoting the democratic participation of european citizens, bringing them directly closer to the european union.
‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) is an important instrument of participatory democracy, whose potential should be fully exploited. in this respect, and three years after the entry into force of regulation (eu) no 211/2012, it is necessary to recognise that the results of its application reveal some gaps and shortcomings that need to be addressed in order to make the eci more accessible to citizens and organisers. in fact, since 2012, none of the initiatives has given rise to new legislation and it is therefore necessary for the commission to present as soon as possible a proposal for the revision of regulation (eu) no 211/2011 and of commission implementing regulation (eu) no 1179/2011. the aim of this report is precisely to present a set of suggestions and recommendations which could help to improve the functioning of the eci and to remove the obstacles and difficulties which currently prevent its full implementation. i voted in favour.
‒ the main objective of the european citizens' initiative is to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in the launch of legislative initiatives. however, after the first three years of operation of this instrument, it is clear that the results initially envisaged when this measure was launched have not yet been achieved. as such, this report is intended to draw attention to the possibility of improving this instrument in general - particularly its operation, by making it simpler and more accessible to citizens. since i subscribe to the position expressed in this report that a full review of the european citizens' initiative is necessary during the next year, as well as the fundamental role of the european parliament as the voice of the aspirations of european citizens who seek to use this mechanism, i voted in favour.
‒ the so-called european citizens' initiative was, from the outset, a childish but also perverse attempt to legitimise an entire structureally undemocratic edifice. let us not forget that the treaty which enshrines this initiative has conspicuously escaped the scrutiny of the people through referendums. it was approved and ratified on the backs of the citizens whose participation it claims to welcome. six years later, it is clear that this instrument, known as participatory democracy, has been discredited. of more than half a hundred attempts, only three have met the strict criteria set to make this 'citizen participation' acceptable.
‒ the so-called european citizens' initiative was, from the outset, a childish but also perverse attempt to legitimise an entire structureally undemocratic edifice. let us not forget that the treaty which enshrines this initiative has conspicuously escaped the scrutiny of the people through referendums. it was approved and ratified on the backs of the citizens whose participation it claims to welcome. six years later, it is clear that this instrument, known as participatory democracy, has been discredited. of more than half a hundred attempts, only three have met the strict criteria set to make this 'citizen participation' acceptable. we cannot accept the illusion of democracy created by this farce, so we voted against the report.
‒ eusair is the eu's third macro-regional strategy and is well placed to draw on the lessons and experiences of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region and the eu strategy for the danube region. this strategy builds on existing cooperation in the region, notably the adriatic-ionian initiative and the adriatic-ionian euroregion, whose members are 26 regional and local authorities from seven countries. eusair covers eight countries equally represented by eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) and third countries, all of them with the status of candidate countries (albania, montenegro and serbia) or potential candidates (bosnia and herzegovina). the region has over 70 million inhabitants and plays a key role in strengthening geographical continuity in europe. eusair is a unique opportunity for the countries of the region to turn over a new leaf and put economic and political problems behind them, working together, guided by the commission, towards prosperity and sustainable development.
‒ the report proposes the development of a macro-regional strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, in line with previous ones devoted to other large regions or basins. references to the eu's macroeconomic policy framework are few and far between, which is a positive thing in this case, since the main aim is to exploit the development factors of the region in an integrated and sustainable way. the principles of the blue economy are valued, alongside the promotion of a fishery that is sustainable and that values traditional segments; the protection of environmental quality and biodiversity is advocated; the establishment of sustainable tourism with less seasonality is advocated. the notion of macro-regions, involving eu countries and others outside this context, contributes to the acquisition of scale, which may benefit some development strategies. this framework and the scope of this territory raise, however, the concern that strategic and cohesion investments, being absorbed by the macro-region, may not be missing, resulting in a lack of strategic and cohesion funding for the member states involved, i.e. to the detriment of the specific needs of each member state.
‒ the third macro-regional strategy of the european union is the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. this region plays a crucial role in the geostrategic position of the european union, the potential of which can only be exploited through joint efforts and participation in the development of the region. it is about defining a set of priorities in order to achieve results that can benefit the whole region. i have therefore voted in favour of the strategy defined by the eu.
‒ the creation of a european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region gave rise to eusair, a macro-regional strategy of the european union which plays a key role in the development of this region, representing a new model of governance at various levels. cooperation between member states and third countries in pursuit of common objectives promotes economic and social cohesion, reducing disparities between regions and stimulating employment and economic growth. the establishment of several priorities for eusair unfolds in important areas to be developed in the future, which will contribute to economic and social growth in the region, namely blue growth, environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism. i am voting in favour of this report which will bring benefits to the whole adriatic and ionian region, including the participating third countries which will be in political, social and economic harmony with the member states.
‒ following the request of the european council of december 2012, the european commission presented in june 2014 the european union (eu) strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) , which is the subject of this motion for a resolution. as the third eu macro-regional strategy, following the adoption of the baltic sea (2009) and danube region (2011) strategies, it seems to us that this new macro-regional strategy could draw valuable lessons from these two strategic platforms already in operation, very concretely on their governance structures, implementation on the ground and even actions or events carried out. as these strategies involving several regions (and member states) are not intended to bring new levels of complexity to european policy or add administrative burdens to the existing european framework, but rather to foster synergies, a more efficient use of resources and better strategic planning, i draw attention to the need for strict compliance with the principle of the three no's: 'no new legislation, no new institutions and no more funding'. because this report is in line with my main views on this subject, i voted in favour.
‒ the report emphasises regional development factors that are integrated and sustainable. it values the principles of the blue economy and the promotion of sustainable fishing that uses traditional means. it promotes the protection of environmental quality and biodiversity and advocates the establishment of sustainable tourism that is less dependent on seasonality. the notion of macro-regions, involving eu countries and others outside this context, contributes to the acquisition of scale for the benefit of development. this framework and the scope of this territory raise, however, the concern that strategic and cohesion investments, being absorbed by the macro-region, may not be missing, resulting in a lack of strategic and cohesion funding for the member states involved, i.e. to the detriment of the specific needs of each member state.
‒ the report is quite positive, highlighting the factors of development in the region that are integrated and sustainable. it values the principles of the blue economy and the promotion of sustainable fishing that takes advantage of traditional means; it promotes the protection of environmental quality and biodiversity as a matter of fact; it advocates the establishment of sustainable tourism with less seasonality. the notion of macro-regions, involving eu countries and others outside this context, contributes to the acquisition of scale, which benefits development. we voted yes.
‒ cohesion policy represents more than one third of the eu budget and is its main investment instrument. therefore, since the 2014-2020 cohesion policy is fully aligned with and contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the strategy, it is very important to examine the progress already made, the scope of the review and the challenges that need to be addressed from the perspective of cohesion policy. the europe 20-20 strategy is a comprehensive long-term strategy for 'growth and jobs' built around five objectives: employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the review of this strategy, which will precede the submission of the proposal for the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, will provide the basis for the future architecture of cohesion policy after 2020.
‒ the report is quite clear on several points as to what it seeks to achieve: reconciling cohesion policies under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy - understood as being in line with eu cohesion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. in other words, it defends one of the worst aspects of the current cohesion policy its submission to a neoliberal agenda of withdrawal of rights and weakening of the state and its social functions, privatisations, which is the eu2020 strategy. that is, submission to an agenda which is itself a generator of divergence rather than cohesion. the eu2020 objectives, which are markedly lagging behind, for example in the social field, have a federalist framework and an artificial and bureaucratic definition, leading to a decrease in cohesion in the sociological and territorial context. the combination of cohesion policies, the european structural investment funds and the multiannual financial framework is making these more dependent on the eu's macro objectives and not on the specific development needs of the member states. obviously, we can only vote against.
‒ i welcome the adoption of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done in an area which represents more than a third of the european union budget. cohesion policy, by covering all regions, is one of the most important instruments for promoting growth and competitiveness, reducing disparities and asymmetries between regions.
‒ cohesion policy for 2014-2020 is the eu's main investment and development policy, aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it aims to reduce disparities between regions and promote convergence, with a budget of €351.8 billion by the end of 2020 i therefore vote in favour of this mid-term review report on the europe 2020 strategy, which calls for better linkage between the five objectives of the strategy - employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion - and its flagship initiatives. i believe that the revision of cohesion policy must give new impetus to the outermost regions which suffer from natural economic and social constraints as explained in article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. it was with great satisfaction that i saw my own-initiative report on 'cohesion policy and the revision of the europe 2020 strategy' approved by the european parliament by more than 80% of the votes cast (530 votes in favour, 75 against and 54 abstentions). the importance of this report goes far beyond the political issues dealt with by the committee on regional development, as it is the first document with the european parliament's backing on the review of the europe 2020 strategy, and it also launches the interinstitutional debate on this subject (which starts with the commission at this plenary session) as well as the discussion on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff). as 2019 is a year of european political events and coincides with the end of the current mff and the current europe 2020 strategy, we hope that the discussions we are now starting will also take into account a broader time horizon and, in particular, the future european legislative framework after 2020. i wanted to make a comprehensive document that was nonetheless positive and easy to read. thanks to the positive and cooperative attitude of the shadow rapporteurs and of the colleagues who have amended the document, i believe that i have achieved the objectives i set out to achieve.
‒ as a result of the economic and financial crisis in some member states, the funds which give substance to cohesion policy and which are intended to finance projects aimed at promoting it have become of crucial importance. they have guaranteed investment capacity for the economic recovery of countries with macroeconomic imbalances. the economic governance recommendations should take this into account and ensure that the regions are safeguarded as recipients of these funds. in this europe 2020 mid-term review, the uneven impact of the crisis must be taken into account. different territorial and social characteristics have led to different resilience capacities. look at youth unemployment in the outermost regions. multi-level governance mechanisms should recognise the capacity of regional and local authorities to intervene. i would like to conclude with a warning: although the operational programmes have been agreed, their implementation is still in its infancy, which has created difficulties.
in writing. ‒ we agree with the strategic objectives of cohesion policy. we cannot understand why the poorer countries and regions differ from the european average. this is the case in portugal, which, since the euro came into operation, has consistently diverged from the european union average in terms of gdp per capita. so something is wrong. there is no cohesion. policies are not working. because the macroeconomic framework is not consistent with regional development policies. in other words, austerity policies, the containment of public spending, whether good or bad, do not allow the establishment of virtuous dynamics of local or regional development. i can give you examples of projects that are not going to work because there is no funding. because the bank prefers to speculate. we can see funds that are not being used in portugal because of the impositions of the troika and the necessary adjustment aimed at the so-called consolidation of public finances. the result is in sight. after almost thirty years of integration, portugal is poorer, more dependent and has the highest public debt in its history.
‒ the report makes clear, in several points, what it wants: the reconciliation of cohesion policies, under the 2014-2020 financial framework, with the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives - understood as being in line with cohesion in the eu. it thus aims to create ex ante conditionalities and link the country specific recommendations to the programming of the funds for 2014-2020. while, on the one hand, from a union perspective, it is rational to reconcile the various investments, avoiding overlaps and contradictions, on the other hand, the definition of the europe 2020 objectives has a federalist framework and an artificial and bureaucratic definition, leading to a decrease in cohesion in the sociological and territorial context. the combination of the european structural investment funds and the multiannual financial framework with cohesion policies is making them dependent on the eu's macro objectives and not on the specific development needs of the member states. we voted against it.
‒ the european parliament's co-rapporteurs for the common provisions regulation proposed the deletion of all macroeconomic conditionality provisions. several amendments were tabled, for example, on behalf of various political groups in parliament which also proposed the abolition of these provisions. however, macroeconomic conditionality was eventually incorporated into the regulation. the agreement reached by parliament, the council and the commission was approved without the amendments seeking to abolish it having been put to the vote. this own-initiative report does not permit the deletion or amendment of the provisions of article 23 of the cpr as contained in the regulation. it can only ensure that those provisions are applied in the most justified and balanced way possible. i voted yes.
‒ the report proposes to reconcile the esi funds and other eu cohesion instruments with what it calls 'good economic governance', under the framework of the european semester and its entire arsenal of conditions for the activity of states and their macroeconomic policies, with country-specific recommendations, reform plans, etc., without forgetting the very 'macroeconomic conditionality' in the regulation on the funds, which provides that payments and commitments of investment funds are suspended in the event of 'non-compliance'. the report contains positive aspects, such as criticism of the suspension of funding (which, however, admits that it should be applied in exceptional cases and reveal greater 'flexibility') and the recognition that the mechanisms associated with the european semester affect the operability and implementation of the esi funds and that the implementation of the mechanisms should not affect the policy objectives and targets of the esi funds. in a sense, you want to square the circle. but the overall objective of the report is to ensure that the european semester mechanisms have a territorial and integrated dimension, and also to ensure that they are more 'democratic' (through control by the european parliament), more flexible and tolerant in the face of member states' failure to comply. in other words, in practice the report accepts and seeks to legitimize the unacceptable and the illegitimate. we voted against it.
‒ i share the view that the existence of a stable macroeconomic environment is conducive to the correct and successful implementation of the european structural and investment funds. the reprogramming process can be costly and difficult for national, local and regional administrations to manage, so the procedure under article 23 of the regulation should be used in exceptional cases, avoiding the creation of financial instability and uncertainty. i voted in favour of the report presented, regretting that the european parliament does not have a more active role in monitoring the application of the mechanism of that article.
‒ in the previous round of cohesion policy negotiations, the various groups in the european parliament expressed their reservations about the introduction of macroeconomic conditionality, which allows for a suspension of payments from the structural funds when a member state is in breach of european economic rules. however, macroeconomic conditionality was eventually introduced into the cohesion policy funds regulation and several changes to the initial way of operation were adopted. i therefore vote in favour of this report which allows for a greater interlinking between the funds and economic governance, while ensuring that the achievement of the political objectives and targets of the european funds should not be jeopardised by the mechanisms of economic governance.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. the text adopted aims to clarify a number of elements concerning the application of the first part of article 23 of the regulation on common provisions (on the practical implications of the reprogramming and suspension of the european structural and investment funds - esi funds), adopted in the previous mandate. the rapporteur therefore calls for the rules to be applied 'in the most justified and balanced way possible' and for the provisions of this article to be used only as a 'last resort' and only to make the esi funds more efficient and effective. the committee also calls for greater involvement not only of local and regional authorities in the reprogramming exercise but also of the european parliament in the scrutiny of the whole governance system provided for in article 23. because i consider that the rapporteur has put to the vote a well-considered text which expresses a comprehensive position of the european parliament, i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ the structural funds are a key instrument for promoting territorial and economic cohesion and for boosting the economy of countries with macroeconomic imbalances. the economic governance recommendations in these cases must take this into account and ensure that the regions are safeguarded as recipients of these funds.
‒ the report proposes a reconciliation between the strategic investment funds (sifs) and other eu cohesion instruments with the european semester framework, macroeconomic policies and the specific recommendations for member states, specifically with reference to article 23 of the cpr (which advocates that payments and commitments of investment funds be suspended in case of non-compliance). the report contains positive points, such as the criticism of the suspension of funding in reference to article 23 of the cpr. recognises that the mechanisms associated with the european semester affect the operability of cohesion policy and in particular the implementation of the structural funds. this report is therefore unacceptable in that it ends up legitimising an instrument which should be banned from the eu.
in writing. the report proposes a reconciliation between the esi funds and other eu cohesion instruments with the european semester framework, macroeconomic policies and the specific recommendations to member states, specifically with reference to article 23 of the cpr (which calls for the suspension of payments and commitments of investment funds in case of non-compliance). the report argues that this suspension should be applied in exceptional cases and should be more flexible. further recognises that the mechanisms associated with the european semester affect the operability and implementation of the esi funds. however, the overall objective of the report is to ensure that the european semester mechanisms have a territorial and integrated dimension, creating the illusion that their democratic nature is possible (especially through control by the european parliament). the aim is to legitimize the eu's governance policies by giving it a more democratic and development-oriented outfit, recognising that their implementation has been harmful. we voted against it.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, these clarifications were necessary because this debate is marked by a number of misunderstandings. first, there is a misunderstanding of purpose. as many of you will recall, the main purpose of this proposal was to control overstayers. today, it seems to be diluted into broader security objectives. secondly, there is a misunderstanding of the present situation, as my colleagues díaz de mera and tanja fajon have already had occasion to point out: this debate has nothing to do with the issue of the migratory pressure we feel, but there are more and more people making demagoguery about the border issue and wanting to mix the debates. and finally, there is a misconception about costs. mr president, it is not enough to say that the budget must be controlled and that costs must be limited. we must understand what the real value of this investment is, both for the community budget and for the member states' budgets, so that this parliament and the other parliaments can decide whether the value of this investment is justified in the face of what this system will bring. i would like to make it clear that i want the commission to ensure systematic checks on fundamental rights throughout the legislative process and that the council is clear about its aims and fully involves this parliament. we all want schengen, we all want freedom of movement. we know that there is no freedom without security, but we also know that too much security can stifle freedom.
mr president, i support the balanced resolution drawn up by the president of libe, claude moraes. edward snowden, who as a whistleblower deserves to be protected and not prosecuted, allowed us to learn about the prisoner program and everything else we came to find out afterwards that has greatly shaken transatlantic relations. to restore confidence, the united states must accept a change of pattern in the construction of its own legal system for data protection, which is incompatible with ours and with international standards, and must guarantee effective judicial and administrative remedies to europeans and other citizens, including americans. the new bill that was passed by the senate yesterday, the cybersecurity information sharing act (cisa), cannot leave the european union indifferent either. many voices in the united states of america are concerned that this bill will also strike at the freedom of information act. the responsibility is not only that of the united states. european governments and parliaments have been conniving, or at least complacent, have allowed the massive clandestine surveillance of our citizens, have coexisted with an inadequate safe harbour agreement, have overstepped national data protection commissions or rendered them passive, have neglected democratic control over the intelligence services and have shown an unacceptable lack of political will and sense of urgency. what is now the overall status on data protection between the european union and the united states after the legal vacuum created by the european court of justice's decision in the max schrems case? we must absolutely ensure that the high levels of protection of fundamental rights enshrined in the european union are respected and the commission must now enforce the court's decision in the negotiations with the united states and must confront european governments and parliaments with their responsibilities.
the crisis has shown that economic and monetary union must be completed, and quickly. but the commission's recent communication does not contribute to this objective, quite the contrary. in 2012, at the height of the crisis, we know that the three institutions converged on a long-term vision: the european parliament had the report by marianne thyssen, her colleague now in the commission, the text by herman van rompuy, or the four presidents plus one, and the blueprint of the european commission, and the condition for the election and confirmation of jean-claude juncker was that this process should be relaunched - and it was through the report by the five presidents. but now that we are taking the first steps towards making it a reality, it is with great surprise and disappointment that we find that the first test of this commitment is not working. and it is not working because the european commission says it wants to hear from the european parliament. but, for example, in the european semester, at what stage and how is the european parliament heard, since the european semester itself is based on and built on the six-pack and the two-pack, which were legislative texts in which this parliament was a co-legislating asset? the european commission is taking refuge in an intergovernmental framework, which is what has not worked, and therefore it is missing the opportunity, for example, to place the european stabilisation mechanism in a community-based context. it goes so far as to hand over the external representation of the euro zone to the president of the eurogroup, who, as we know, is not accountable to this parliament or to any other community institution. so, commissioner, what is the agenda of the european commission? because it is certainly not a response to either the report by marianne thyssen in the past or the berès report which was adopted here in this house. i hope that the agenda will be corrected and that the commission will realise that in order to make progress in the euro area, the two community institutions - parliament and the commission - must work hand in hand, and not just with the so-called lip service, which in practice guarantees neither accountability nor democratic control. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
blue-card answer.– i think this parliament has been extremely active in trying to contribute to the completion of the monetary union, and we have strong suggestions, as noted recently in the berès report and previously in marianne thyssen’s report, that the commission knows this. this is not what we expect from the commission in this first phase. this first phase is too inter-governmental and it does not solve the problems in terms of growth, combating imbalances and bringing forward true employment and true convergence. so please, commissioner, look at back at the text and try to correct it before it is too late; because parliament is supporting you provided you do the right thing.
for the gue/ngl group i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr rosati, for his efforts in relation to the european semester. i am very grateful, but i would like to speak about the reasons why i cannot support this report, and i would like to deal with a fundamental issue which is, in my view, one of the real fundamental problems which is why we continue to face so many difficulties: the commission's proposal is that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. the belief is that we have to treat trade surpluses differently from deficits. as i said, i am talking about the question of trade surpluses and deficits because more and more people are burdened with deficits and more and more trade surpluses are being naturalized. the question of surpluses and deficits is not a political one, it is a logical one: international trade is a zero-sum game. to have surpluses on one side, there must be deficits on the other. and in that sense, to continue down this path of too strong a hand with the weak, of punishment, of penalization, and too light a hand with the strong, is a path to the disintegration of monetary union and of the european union itself. i also think that we cannot continue to bet on the deregulation of the labour market, and i would like to make one last remark. i would like to ask you not to ask the committee on women's rights for an opinion on the european semester if you do not then take any of the proposals on gender inequality into account.
mr president, i will focus my comments on the recent package presented by the commission to streamline the european semester and to complete economic and monetary union. the commission announced the purpose – which i very much support – of promoting upward convergence, but i am afraid that the solutions which are being proposed will not be enough to deliver these goals. if you really want to deliver upward convergence, you need first of all to change the targets, starting with competitiveness. it is very important to focus improvement in competitiveness on factors for the future, meaning innovation, education, energy and public administration, rather than just controlling labour costs. then you also need to change the social targets because it is important to take into account not only unemployment rates, but also social inequalities, because they are increasing in europe. then you need to change the priorities in the country—specific recommendations. yes, we need reforms; but the reforms which should be prioritised concern education, innovation and public administration. above all, we need much more investment and, finally, we need to raise demand, particularly asking surplus countries to spend more. so this means quite a change in the priorities the commission is recommending. we also need to increase financial support with a real fiscal capacity. without that it is difficult to have real upward convergence.
mr president, the european semester operationalizes economic governance and is therefore the real weapon for subjugating the national states to the neoliberal creed. it not only solves nothing, it aggravates economic and social problems. in portugal, fiscal consolidation has generated more unemployment, more poverty, more social inequalities and a public debt unprecedented in the history of our democracy. but europe, with 25 million unemployed and 120 million poor, is not making progress either, despite the billions of euros the ecb has injected into the financial system. the european fund for strategic investments, the document from the five presidents or the intention to align the timetable of the european semester are merely delaying manoeuvres designed to avoid confrontation with reality. economic governance promotes a macroeconomic framework that is incompatible with any policy of recovery. the finnish example is worth noting. it was once a model of virtue in terms of budgetary discipline, but it did not escape the recession and ended up pushing the deficit too far. how long will the european institutions remain blind to reality?
mr president, the european semester is key to making the european union a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. having set very clear targets to be achieved by 2020 for employment, productivity and social cohesion, we can welcome the signs of growth in the union and the reduction in the unemployment rate and youth unemployment. however, we must not forget that these rates are still alarming in many member states and in many regions, such as my region, the azores, where unemployment is over 30%. i agree that the european semester should focus on what it does: the coordination of the economic policies of the european union. but we cannot allow these guidelines to fail to promote the balance between a market economy and the social economy, and they must be aimed primarily at training young europeans to cope with the demands of the labour market, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, the difficulty for companies to access finance and the removal of barriers to their activity. commissioner, minister, this is a europe of regions and as such we must not ignore that many of them need more investment to improve their growth potential and ensure their sustainability, and this cannot be forgotten in the european semester.
madam president, the longterm unemployed are an easy target for policies that want to make labour cheaper and more exploited. if a worker has been out of work for more than 12 or 18 months, he should be very happy with any crumb. this is the thinking of governments, like the previous rightwing government in my country, which created a traineeship programme for the longterm unemployed, directly contributing to the replacement of jobs with precarious employment rights, to the direct reduction of wages and, on top of that, subsidizing this reduction of wages with social security money. now, that's an example not to follow. it is urgent to boost sectors of the economy, such as industry, which create jobs, but it is also necessary to respect the principle that a permanent job corresponds to an effective employment relationship and that all these precarious work models are converted into effective contracts when they correspond to permanent needs. it seems simple and obvious. then why don't you? (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr szanyi, this is precisely the kind of work i was talking about, namely work that corresponds to permanent needs, particularly in public administration, and that is paid differently from other workers, and long-term workers are a preferred target for this type of operation.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would say to vice-president dombrovskis that it is really important for us that the european strategy for growth and jobs be relaunched. it has disappeared from our radars, but europe really needs a bolder strategy for growth and jobs. europe 2020 should be updated to take into account the new challenges. we believe that what is at stake now is not only energy transition but also promoting a circular economy and providing new kinds of jobs because of that; what is at stake is not only to promote digital telecommunications but the full range of new services, products and the new jobs connected with this; what is at stake is not only to strengthen r&d but to turn r&d into real innovative services and products, and finally, in the social dimension, we believe that beyond quality jobs we also need to tackle social inequalities. so europe 2020 should be updated like that. but then we are concerned with the means to implement this, because the lesson of the past is that bold visions were not matched by the proper means. so we believe that the european investment plan should be made a central engine to implement the europe 2020 strategy, and we also believe that the european semester should provide the coordination of economic and social policies which we need to deliver the europe 2020 strategy properly. so my question for you, mr vice-president, is the following: so far, we have a kind of divorce between the europe 2020 strategy on the one hand and the european semester on the other, and we need to marry them again, i would say, so this means that the next european semester cycle should take fully on board the europe 2020 targets, should take fully on board europe 2020 goals when encouraging member states to prepare their national reform programmes, and then the country-specific recommendations should push in the same direction. we believe this is a central problem to be solved, to reconnect the european semester with the europe 2020 strategy.
madam vice-president, it is clear, and the committee recognises this, that the first five years of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy have failed, the growth strategy has lost its influence and has been overshadowed by the focus on budgetary policy. there has been too much financial focus and a huge lack of economic focus. addressing this imbalance must be the priority of the review of the europe 2020 strategy, and to do so we need to be ambitious and bold. the combination of the energy union and the digital union is one such pathway. the smart combination of the energy union and the digital union is a path of sustainable development in which the european union can lead. this leadership means a new vision of the future of the world, based on a commitment to scientific research, innovation, skilled employment and new models of social organisation and mobility. i dare not, in the brief seconds of this speech, describe that vision. i have summarised it into an idea that i hope will inspire the review of strategy 2020. we have to put a strategy in place for the people, and first we have to get the people to discuss the strategy. let us make this process an inspiring process for the future of the european union.
mr president, the eu 2020 strategy, like the lisbon strategy, has not addressed the serious problems we face. on the contrary, the policies contained in these strategies are responsible for these same problems. the goal of full employment and the eradication of poverty has been abandoned. the interests of the big economic and financial groups were given priority. the social and employment situation has deteriorated, poverty and social exclusion have reached unacceptable levels, precariousness and unemployment have become widespread, exploitation has increased, and liberalization and privatisation of strategic sectors and public services - financial services, energy, transport, postal services and others - have taken place. it is time to change policies, it is time to seriously address the social problems facing europe, it is time to end the debt stick, economic governance, the european semester, the budgetary treaty. it is time to regain public, democratic control over companies in strategic sectors of the economy. it is time to revive productive public investment, to create jobs, to create wealth, to distribute in a socially just way the wealth created.
madam president, the widespread use of drones in civil aviation has given rise to the emergence of new companies, particularly small and mediumsized enterprises. this is indeed an area where the union can and must assume leadership, but for that, as we have discussed here, we need to find a proportionate and clear regulation. we must not block the potential of this emerging sector. but we must respect the privacy, data protection and security of citizens. we're talking, obviously, about complexes where we need to legislate and for what? so that these technology companies in this area can bet on innovation, creation and, above all, the provision of services. in view of the legal vacuum in some member states, there are barriers to overcome in the contracting of such services. it is urgent to create a european legal framework without over-legislating and without creating unnecessary burdens for small and mediumsized enterprises. i shall vote in favour of this report.
drones are no longer something out of a science fiction movie. they are an increasingly advanced technology, reflected in an emerging industry in which the union should aspire to be a leader. but these unmanned aerial vehicles are also a new reality, posing new challenges to the protection of fundamental rights, security, police forces and public order. i am therefore pleased to see that the report under discussion today reflects precisely this approach - on the one hand, recommending a set of measures to achieve a single european market and to take the lead in setting global standards, and on the other hand, recognising the new challenges and following the recommendations adopted by the libe committee, such as the need for traceability, a legal framework appropriate to the enabling effect of new technologies such as cameras and thermal sensors, or the encouragement of investment in privacy and security technologies. this is based on the assumption that any measures should involve all stakeholders and be proportionate, i.e. taking into account the risk involved and the size of the companies. it's time to get down to business, because technology can't wait!
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked and who have directly drawn up this report. we have managed to reach a consensus document where we identify the current situation on the challenges and on this very important sector and the challenges that employment itself faces. this is the first debate of this legislature and it is the first debate we have on tourism. i cannot help but regret that the commissioner responsible for this sector is not here with us, is not here to discuss a sector so important for job creation, so important for the growth of the union's economy. we have listed a number of proposals here. i would therefore like the commission to present an action plan, a concrete action plan, so that together we, the commission and parliament, can set the priorities for our actions and also for these actions to know what kind of funding exists and where we can channel it. i am available and we are all available to work together on the eight actions that the commissioner presented this summer at the world tourism forum and i hope that this action plan will arrive as soon as possible so that we can work.
in writing. despite the breadth of proposals and the focus on external promotion, advocated in the resolution, through the creation of a tourism brand destination europe, this one points out paths that deserve to be highlighted and supported. this is the case for the development of coastal and maritime tourism, which represents more than one third of the maritime economy and has a direct impact on other sectors of the union's economy, employing 3.2 million people, mostly young people aged between 16 and 35, and has been a lever for growth and job creation, particularly in the atlantic and mediterranean regions. i also note the recognition of the importance of connectivity and accessibility in the outermost and island regions which depend on sea and air transport and the consequent advocacy for actions to lessen the impact of seasonality in these regions. for the reasons stated above and as set out in the grounds and provisions of the resolution, it makes perfect sense that tourism should henceforth be treated in a way that is more in keeping with its true social and economic importance. in the same vein, the union must set out on the path of global affirmation of this sector, valuing its contribution to the sustainable development of europe and its regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, aviation safety is directly linked to air navigation systems, which make it possible to identify and detect when aircraft are also in difficulty. at present, these flight tracking systems only cover about 30 percent of the world's airspace, obviously leaving areas unmonitored, such as oceans and forests. according to icao, the ads-b satellite system will reduce the vulnerabilities of current navigation systems and at the same time increase the efficiency and capacity of air traffic management. my question to the commission is whether it has already assessed the possible safety problems of the ads-b system itself and whether it has already set a timetable for examining the application of this ads-b system in european airspace.
‒ cepol, the european police college, is responsible for training security forces throughout europe. the amendment proposed by the commission is essentially to align the legal basis with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and to give the agency the task of implementing the european training programme for the security forces, which are very welcome and go against what parliament has repeatedly called for. this report, which i clearly support, introduces changes along three lines: to focus the agency's activity on european and crossborder areas, in line with the european security strategy; to strengthen the coordinating role of ecpol, without prejudice to the support provided to the training bodies of the member states; to make its administrative structure more efficient, as was the case with europol. the new responsibilities mean that adequate funding is needed for the next financial year. i have been an early advocate of the agency's autonomy and i believe that the training of national police has contributed to greater mutual trust and, consequently, cooperation.
‒ cepol is not a training institute in the traditional sense: the courses take place throughout the eu, mainly by a network of national police training institutes, and it has a rather modest budget (around €8.5 million) and a simple staff (a total of about 40 people, including officials/temporary agents, contract agents and contingent agents). in 2013, some 8 250 police officers participated in some 100 cepol activities (courses, seminars, conferences and webinars). in addition, some 450 police officers, trainers and researchers from 25 countries have used cepol's european police exchange programme erasmus to spend time in the police force of another country. the proposal for a regulation updates the legal basis of cepol, adapts it to the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and entrusts cepol with the implementation of the principles of the new police training programme, as set out in the commission communication referred to above. i voted in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed regulation should be amended to take account of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon (including the role of the european parliament and national parliaments) and to give cepol the task of implementing the principles of the new police training programme, as set out in the european commission's communication. the new legal framework now proposed is intended to enable cepol to implement a police training programme for all european law enforcement officers. in march 2015, the european commission put forward a proposal to update the legal framework of europol (european police office), where, among other changes, it already proposed the merger of cepol and europol in order to bring together synergies between law enforcement operationalization and officer training. under the pretext of 'guaranteeing the security of european citizens', this is nothing more than an attempt to create the conditions for the establishment of a supranational policing structure, outside the democratic control of the member states and therefore outside their constitutions, that is, it is another step in the intention of federalizing the eu in an area that goes to the heart of the sovereignty functions of the states. we voted against it.
‒ in the face of the continuous evolution of the eu's internal security needs, it is important that the training of police authorities is adapted to the constant challenges to citizens' security. the proposal for a regulation updates the legal basis of cepol, strengthening its role and entrusting it with the principles of the new vocational training programme as set out by the european commission.
‒ the european union plays a relevant role in the security of european citizens and as such, the simplification and improvement of the european union agency for police training (cepol) aims to provide high quality training for law enforcement officers, an essential factor in combating the growing threat of transnational organised crime. the cooperation between cepol and the member states is linked to the need to improve the organisation and coordination of police training activities at european level where cepol will act as a platform to support the internal security of the european union. the protection of fundamental rights and human rights should be the basis of all their training activities, with regard to topics such as data protection, support and protection of victims, privacy, among others. i am voting in favour of this proposal, taking into account the growing needs of society to deal with conflicts and the increasing organized crime through modernising police training and cooperation between member states and the european union.
‒ cepol is an agency of the european union (eu) tasked with training national police authorities to promote crossborder cooperation. without a training institute in the traditional sense, cepol uses a network of national police training academies to effectively deliver the courses. the role of this agency in training on organised and transnational crime, with particular emphasis on eu-related issues, should be noted. the european parliament, taking into account the eu's internal security needs and the consequent need to adapt its agencies to them, is called upon to adopt the proposal for a regulation updating the legal basis of cepol at first reading. the amendments requested by the present report establish a new legal basis, adapting the agency's legislation to the proposals contained in the commission's communication on the european police training programme. in this way, the target group for training is broadened, new tasks are assigned to the agency and the competences in the areas of research are extended to training, allowing a forward-looking approach in the construction of curricula. i voted in favour of the proposal subject to the conditions set out.
‒ the constantly evolving needs of europe's internal security place increasing demands on security forces and police officers, requiring them to be appropriately qualified to face new and complex challenges and to ensure the security of european citizens. the european police academy is the agency responsible for police training and, although not a training institute in the traditional sense of the term, it is the body responsible for training police officers throughout the eu, mainly through the national police training institutes. the amendment proposed by the commission aims, on the one hand, to update the legal basis of the academy, adapting it to the changes resulting from the lisbon treaty, and, on the other, to instruct it to adopt the principles of the new police training programme. i enthusiastically support this report, which aims to make cepol more effective by strengthening its coordinating role and making its administrative structure more efficient, and to implement the european police training programme more consistently and rigorously by focusing more on the european and crossborder areas, in line with the european security strategy.
‒ the european police college (epc) is the agency responsible for police training. the proposal for a regulation updates the legal basis of cepol, adapts it to the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and entrusts cepol with the implementation of the principles of the new police training programme, as set out in the commission communication referred to above. the european parliament has on several occasions called on the commission to adapt the legal framework of cepol to the lisbon treaty and the new ambition of the european police training programme. quality training for law enforcement officials is essential to combat serious and organised transnational crime. the new legal framework will enable cepol to better implement the police training programme and serve all european law enforcement officers.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the european police force. the new legal framework proposed is intended to enable cepol to implement a police training programme for all european law enforcement officers. on 27 march 2015, the commission put forward a proposal to update the legal framework of europol (european police office), where among other changes it already proposed the merger of cepol and europol in order to bring together synergies between law enforcement operationalization and officer training. under the pretext of 'guaranteeing the security of european citizens', it is simply a matter of creating the conditions for the establishment of a supranational police structure, outside the democratic control of the member states and therefore outside their constitutions, that is, it is another step in the intention of federalising the european union, by taking away the sovereignty of the member states in matters so sensitive to the freedoms and guarantees of individuals. we voted against it.
‒ this regulation responds to the need to enhance the transparency of securities financing markets and, therefore, of the financial system. in order to ensure a level playing field and international convergence, this regulation follows the recommendations made by the efc. it establishes a union-wide framework under which information on ofifas can be provided efficiently to trade repositories and investors. regulators and supervisors may therefore face less transparency in relation to those activities, preventing them from obtaining an adequate overview of the risks associated with securities financing transactions. this would only exacerbate the already well-established links between the regulated banking sector and the shadow banking system in certain markets.
in writing. the stated objective of this proposal for a regulation is to increase the transparency and monitoring of financial activities outside the traditional banking sector, i.e. the shadow banking sector. it was this type of financial product that was behind the bankruptcy of lehman brothers and therefore the financial crisis of 2007/2008. it was not a lack of transparency or notification that triggered the crisis, but the very nature of the 'products'. on the other hand, all the changes to legislation since then to increase the level of regulation, or which are still in the pipeline, will always remain insufficient. the solution is to ban securities financing. it should either prohibit commercial banks from selling the loans they grant to companies and individuals (the possibility of selling the credit leads to the lowest risk analysis and, on the other hand, the lender is the one who knows the implicit risk best with successive sales, the information is lost); or prohibit securitisation of the credit (post-securitisation rating is done by the rating agencies, to which investment banks pay the good ratings). and in any case, a separation of commercial and investment banking should be promoted. we voted against it.
‒ problems have been identified with respect to securities financing operations and, in order to minimise risks and increase transparency of such operations, the proposed regulation introduces certain measures. there is a need to improve transparency in the monitoring of the build-up of systemic risks associated with securities financing transactions in the financial system and the disclosure of information on such transactions to investors. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ the need to enhance the transparency of securities financing markets has led to the creation of this regulation in order to ensure a level playing field in terms of competition and international convergence. the assessment and monitoring of banking risks and the level of interconnectedness of the financial system by investors, regulators and supervisors can only be effective if there is transparency in the course of operations. this measure will enhance the efficiency and the provision of specific information on securities financing transactions (sfo), i.e. repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending, securities or commodities borrowing, buy/sell or sell/buy-back transactions, liquidity swaps and collateral swaps. i am voting in favour of this regulation because it responds to the need for supervision and the establishment of transparent markets, by providing a more robust banking system, capable of avoiding situations of financial instability and promoting the proper functioning of the internal market in the member states.
‒ securities financing transactions are essentially a form of collateralised financing which allows the exchange of assets, temporarily, as collateral for the financing of securities lending or repurchase transactions. in view of the so-called 'shadow banking system' in which non-bank credit activities with scale and expression are carried out to contaminate the regulated financial sector, and also in view of the specific risks posed by securities financing operations (which intensify indebtedness and pro-cyclical nature and interdependence in financial markets), it is essential to ensure transparency of operations, the analysis of which will allow the development of effective and efficient policy instruments to prevent systemic risks. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation, considering that every effort must be made to prevent excessive leverage of the financial system leading to another major financial crisis.
‒ the relevant regulation of the parliament and of the council integrates the structural reforms of the eu banking sector and was published in the proposal of 29.01.2014 on structural reform of banking. the aim of the regulation is to increase transparency and monitoring of financial activities outside the traditional banking sector, at a time when so-called 'shadow banking' is again growing disproportionately, once again endangering the entire stability of the financial system. we're not going there with regulations. the solution lies in public control of the financial system and the separation between retail banking and investment banking. abandoning the financial system to a mere logic of profit accumulation will only lead to increased speculation to the detriment of financing the real economy which today needs capital as if it were bread to eat.
‒ the relevant regulation of the parliament and of the council integrates the structural reforms of the eu banking sector and was published in the proposal of 29.01.2014 on structural reform of banking. the aim of the regulation is to increase the transparency and monitoring of financial activities outside the traditional banking sector, i.e. the shadow sector. it was this type of financial product that was behind the bankruptcy of lehman brothers and therefore the financial crisis of 2007/2008. it was not for lack of transparency or notification that the crisis happened, but for the very character of the products. on the other hand, all the changes to legislation since then to increase the level of regulation, or which are still in the pipeline, will always remain insufficient. the solution is to ban securities financing. we voted against it.
‒ the rights of european citizens continue to be in danger following the revelations of the surveillance programmes made by snowden in 2013. i regret the limited progress made in this area and consider it necessary for the commission to present alternatives to the decision on the safe harbor system for data transfer to the usa, which the ecj has declared invalid. the new laws on information services in several eu countries also merit some reservations. the resolution aims to take stock of the follow-up to the recommendations made by the european parliament, the monitoring bodies in several member states and their impact on the fundamental rights of eu citizens and on transatlantic cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs.
‒ this resolution follows many of the recommendations made in the original 2014 document, particularly with regard to data protection, democratic scrutiny, the issue of whistleblower protection such as the snowden case in june 2013 and net neutrality. it goes further, proposing the status of 'whistleblower and human rights defender' and consequently its protection as such, and demands that the united states of america put an end to the espionage it has been carrying out. however, this resolution expressly condemns the united kingdom, the netherlands and france for their recent legislation in this area, and in paragraph 21 goes so far as to state that 'the european union and its member states need a common definition of 'national security' in order to ensure legal certainty', which is a huge contradiction with the stated defence of democratic control and national constitutions. it is one of the many contradictions in the report. for the foregoing, our vote is abstention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the large-scale electronic surveillance of eu citizens. i urge the commission to respond to the calls made by successive resolutions of the european parliament. the us-eu relationship is essential for both sides. the surveillance revelations have jeopardised this relationship and it is therefore essential that steps are taken to ensure that this trust is restored, taking into account cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest.
‒ i believe that data and information flows, which dominate our daily lives and are part of the integrity of every person, must be protected and secure. data protection and privacy are fundamental rights. it is important to stress that security measures, such as counter-terrorism measures, should be applied in accordance with the rule of law and be subordinated to fundamental rights obligations. i am concerned about the rapporteur's view that the fundamental rights of eu citizens continue to be in danger and that little has been done to ensure the full protection of those rights in the event of large-scale electronic surveillance, and i also regret the little progress made towards ensuring the protection of whistleblowers and journalists. i agree that there should be strict monitoring and follow-up of large-scale electronic surveillance of eu citizens by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in its resolution of 12 march 2014, parliament drafted, on its own initiative, a number of observations addressed to the council and the commission in order to clarify certain key issues relating to the surveillance programmes and bodies of the united states of america and several member states and their impact on the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union (eu). parliament called on the commission to give its opinion on the follow-up to the report and to report on the progress made in promoting and protecting the right of eu citizens to freedom of opinion and expression. in a climate of large-scale surveillance, it is important that the european commission, as the 'guardian of the treaties', step up its efforts to respond to the challenges of the legal framework on data protection. the recommendations made by the rapporteur are a decisive contribution to ensuring that eu personal data continue to enjoy the necessary adequate protection, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ parliament called on the us authorities and the member states to prohibit surveillance activities and the large-scale processing of personal data of citizens and denounced the actions of the intelligence services flagged which seriously affected the trust and fundamental rights of eu citizens. we are deeply concerned about recent legislative acts in certain member states that expand the surveillance capabilities of intelligence agencies. we fear that this security drift, which seeks to ride the wave of terrorist attacks and the climate of fear that has been created among the citizens, is putting fundamental rights at risk. it is therefore a call for a thorough reflection on the new phenomena of security, terrorism and their root causes, without which nothing good can come out of this debate.
‒ this resolution follows many of the recommendations made in the original 2014 document, particularly with regard to data protection, democratic control of data, the issue of whistleblowers such as the snowden case in june 2013 and net neutrality. it goes further by proposing the status of 'whistleblower and human rights defender' and consequently its protection as such, and demands that the united states of america put an end to the espionage it has been carrying out. however, this resolution expressly condemns the united kingdom, the netherlands and france for their recent legislation on the matter, and in paragraph 21 goes so far as to state that 'the european union and its member states need a common definition of 'national security' in order to ensure legal certainty', i.e. it limits the democratic control of citizens in these matters and ignores national constitutions. we therefore abstained, although we agree with much of the text.
‒ the european semester process aims to ensure integrated coordination of economic policies at eu level through a combination of macroeconomic and fiscal surveillance instruments, in order to guide convergence and manage the interdependence of member states. i welcome the outlook for economic growth in 2016 and the pace of declining unemployment rates, which show that economic recovery is gaining ground, albeit slowly. in this regard, the entry into force of the regulation on the european fund for strategic investments (a programme to boost public/private investment in the eu), as well as the budgetary results, the transition of unused commitment appropriations in 2014 from the 2007-2013 period to 2015, 2016 and 2017, the start of the operational programmes related to the cohesion fund and the new streamlining approach of the european semester are to be welcomed. i regret that the single market is still not a specific pillar of the european semester, contrary to the european parliament's call for it to be, and i regret the poor performance of some member states in budgetary consolidation and the lack of commitment to implementing the country-specific recommendations. i support greater involvement of national parliaments in the discussion of the european semester.
‒ the commission's spring 2015 economic forecast indicates growth rates of 2.1% in the eu and 1.9% in the euro area for 2016. the annual rate of consumer price inflation in both the eu and the euro area is expected to increase from 0,1% in 2015 to 1,1% in 2016, which does not reflect the risk of deflation predicted by the european central bank. however, unemployment in the eu remains unacceptably high but is declining, and is expected to fall to 9.2% in the eu and 10.5% in the euro area in 2016. i stress the importance of access to finance for businesses, in particular smes, which form the backbone of the eu economy. in this context, it is noted that the current low interest rates have proved insufficient to encourage investment in the required volume. the commission should put forward proposals to reverse this situation.
‒ the european semester procedure operationalized the practical implementation of the eu's legislative framework in response to the deep crisis it has been plunged into as a result of the continuing dynamic of divergence between its member states, notably with regard to economic governance legislation. the neoliberal policies that have generated inequality and crisis have not been called into question. on the contrary, it is the intention of economic governance and the european semester to create new and strengthened conditions for its continuation. in other words, they not only solve nothing, but they also aggravate the economic and social problems, especially in countries like portugal. the so-called fiscal consolidation policies have generated unprecedented unemployment, intolerable levels of poverty, inequalities and social injustices, along with unprecedented debt (public and external). the european fund for strategic investments, the prospects for deepening emu or the future of the european semester are, after all, nothing but leaps forward. the present framework, also determined by the budgetary treaty, promotes an almost absolute constraint on the development of an alternative, sovereign development policy based on progress and social justice. this report endorses this course of confrontation with democracy, of economic and social retrogression with a civilizational dimension. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and the priorities for 2015. the european economic recovery is starting to show signs, with gdp forecast to grow by 1.9% in the euro area and 2.1% in the eu in 2016. signs of economic recovery, based on significant fiscal efforts and structural reforms carried out by many member states, were decisive for this recovery. the implementation of the necessary structural reforms and fiscal responsibility have been key to laying the foundations for economic growth, which is still fragile and requires concerted efforts to boost investment and improve member states' employment policies.
‒ i believe that data and information flows, which dominate our daily lives and are part of the integrity of every person, must be protected and secure. data protection and privacy are fundamental rights. it is important to stress that security measures, such as counter-terrorism measures, should be applied in accordance with the rule of law and be subordinated to fundamental rights obligations. i am concerned about the rapporteur's view that the fundamental rights of eu citizens continue to be in danger and that little has been done to ensure the full protection of those rights in the event of large-scale electronic surveillance, and i also regret the little progress made towards ensuring the protection of whistleblowers and journalists. i agree that there should be strict monitoring and follow-up of the large-scale electronic surveillance of eu citizens by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
‒ the european semester process provides a number of guidelines following the commission's evaluation of the member states' 'national reform programmes' and 'stability or convergence programmes'. in this connection, the report now before us summarises the main conclusions of the exchange of views organized by the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. a large majority of participants considered that the implementation rate and effectiveness of the country-specific recommendations drawn up in the context of the european semester would be enhanced through the involvement of national parliaments. the report calls for the involvement of national parliaments at an earlier stage, i.e. from the very beginning, in the preparation of action programmes. since i consider that the sharing of experience on the european semester process and its promotion by the counterparts is of vital importance for structural reforms and for the improvement of the economic situation which depends on them, i voted in favour of the above-mentioned draft resolution.
the european semester, which operationalizes economic governance and is therefore the real weapon for subjugating national states to the neoliberal creed, not only solves nothing, but also aggravates economic and social problems. in portugal, fiscal consolidation has generated more unemployment, more poverty, more social inequalities and a public debt unprecedented in the history of our democracy. but europe, with 25 million unemployed and 120 million poor, is not making progress either, despite the billions of euros the ecb has injected into the financial system. the european fund for strategic investments, the five-chairman document and the intention to align the timetable of the european semester are merely delaying manoeuvres designed to avoid confrontation with reality. economic governance promotes a macroeconomic framework that is incompatible with any policy of economic recovery. the finnish example is worth noting. finland was once a model of virtue in budgetary discipline, but it did not escape the recession and ended up breaking the deficit line.
the european semester, which operationalizes economic governance and is therefore the real weapon for subjugating national states to the neoliberal creed, not only solves nothing, but also aggravates economic and social problems. in portugal, fiscal consolidation has generated more unemployment, more poverty, more social inequalities and a colossal public debt. the european fund for strategic investments, the document from the five presidents or the intention to align the timetable of the european semester are merely delaying maneuvers. economic governance promotes a macroeconomic framework that is incompatible with any policy of economic recovery, impeding the country's development possibilities. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ since 2007, due to the economic crisis affecting europe, long-term unemployment has doubled, accounting for half of total unemployment, i.e. more than 12 million people. long-term unemployment often leads to poverty, inequality, social exclusion and progressively isolates people from the labour market through deterioration of skills, loss of contact with professional networks and loss of work rhythm. i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that it is essential, in order to combat longterm unemployment, to significantly improve the registration of longterm unemployed with the employment services; to assess the employment potential, individual needs and preferences of longterm unemployed before they reach 18 months of unemployment and to facilitate a 'job integration agreement' between the longterm unemployed and the services concerned. i am in favour of the creation of one-stop shops where the unemployed person benefits from the presence of a professional who is responsible for his case. member states should integrate eu funds into their national policies in order to use adequate national funding to fight long-term unemployment.
‒ due to the economic crisis and its consequences, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment, i.e. more than 12 million people, which is 5% of the eu's working population. in 2014, more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. the longterm unemployment rate varies considerably between member states, ranging from 1.5% in austria to 19.5% in greece, with the member states with the highest longterm unemployment rates being italy, portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. i therefore consider it necessary to significantly improve the registration of longterm unemployed with the employment services, with a view to comprehensive coverage, to assess the employment potential, individual needs and preferences of longterm unemployed before they reach 18 months of unemployment and to provide for an adapted, balanced and intelligible 'employment integration agreement' between the longterm unemployed and the services concerned within a maximum of 18 months after the start of the period of unemployment.
‒ longterm unemployed workers are an easy target for labour devaluation policies aimed at increasing exploitation. the aim is to make labour cheaper, to increase the extraction of surplus value, unpaid labour time, i.e. exploitation. it is urgent to boost job creation. it is urgent to stimulate sectors of the economy, such as industry, where these jobs can be created. there is an urgent need to boost public employment by addressing serious shortcomings, particularly in public services. the state itself, in its capacity as producer (and not merely as 'regulator'), can and must make a direct contribution to this. but it is also necessary to respect the principle that a permanent job corresponds to a real employment relationship and that the various forms of precarious work should be converted into real contracts when they meet permanent needs. it is therefore urgent that the strategies to be adopted by the council do not repeat the false solutions of creating vocational training programmes or pseudo-contracts for temporary insertion into the labour market, which only increase the exploitation of workers without giving them a viable and dignified solution to their lives.
‒ i have voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. long-term unemployment is an economic but also a social problem, and it is essential to adapt the reintegration programmes for the long-term unemployed to the needs of the labour market. the active involvement of employers through an understanding of the demands and needs of these unemployed is essential in order to support specific training programmes.
‒ it should be noted that long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment, i.e. more than 12 million people, representing 5% of the eu's active population, and that in 2014 more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. long-term unemployment has serious personal consequences such as poverty, inequality and social exclusion, affecting vulnerable people who are normally at a disadvantage in the labour market. i believe that the economic recovery should be given greater impetus, as it is not currently providing sufficient impetus to reduce significantly the high structural unemployment rates. i agree with the need to reach out to all the longterm unemployed, including the unregistered, the need to adapt all programmes for the reintegration of the longterm unemployed to labour market needs, and i reiterate the call on the member states to integrate eu funds, including through the european social fund, into their national policies in order to use adequate national funding to fight longterm unemployment.
‒ sensitive to the impact of unemployment on the lives of citizens in the member states, the commission presented on 17 september 2015 a proposal for a council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. this recommendation follows the conclusions of the analysis of support services for the reintegration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. the document has since been examined by the committee on employment and social affairs and the rapporteur welcomes the proposals contained in the above-mentioned recommendation, which benefits greatly from the contribution of the european parliament. in view of the european union's responsibility in combating longterm unemployment and also in view of the contribution of this report, which points to specific actions to improve and strengthen the personalised support available in the member states, i voted in favour.
‒ long-term unemployment is an excellent tool for policies that aim to make labour cheaper and more exploited. if a worker has been out of work for more than 12 or 18 months, he should be very happy with any crumb. the previous right-wing government in portugal, with this idea in mind, created a traineeship programme for the long-term unemployed, directly contributing to the substitution of employment with precarious employment rights, to the direct reduction of wages and, on top of that, subsidizing this reduction of wages with social security money. we understand the need to bring down unemployment. however, there are minimum rules, many of them relating to human dignity. first of all, it is also necessary to create jobs on a solid basis, with growth in the real economy, and to respect the principle that a permanent job corresponds to a real employment relationship. all these precarious work models must be converted into actual contracts when they meet permanent needs. all the rest is rhetorical exercises to disguise policies that foster exploitation.
‒ long-term unemployed workers are an easy target for policies that want to make labour cheaper and more exploited. it is urgent to stimulate sectors of the economy, such as industry, which create jobs. but it is also necessary to respect the principle that a permanent job corresponds to a real employment relationship and that all these precarious work models should be converted into real contracts when they meet permanent needs. it is therefore urgent that the strategies to be adopted by the council do not repeat the false solutions of creating vocational training programmes or pseudo-contracts for temporary insertion into the labour market, which only increase the exploitation of workers without giving them a viable and dignified solution to their lives.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for the libe committee, i have sought to ensure that the new challenges posed by this new technology to the protection of fundamental rights, security, police forces and public order are discussed and addressed. to this end, i have advocated and guaranteed a european approach, calling for the involvement of industry and national and european bodies; i have advocated and ensured that the regulatory framework is as technology neutral as possible. i advocated and ensured an approach that would not stifle the industry that is now beginning to flourish. this report, which i support, reflects precisely this approach. on the one hand, by recommending a set of measures to achieve a single european market and to take the lead in setting world standards. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. with the diagnosis, advanced solutions and lines of action, now it is time to act.
‒ the sector of remotely piloted aircraft, also known as unmanned aerial vehicles, urgently needs european and global rules to ensure the development of a competitive european industry, protect privacy and security and clearly distinguish between professional and recreational use. rpas used in a professional context also currently bring significant benefits for civilian use in a number of areas, such as safety inspections and infrastructure monitoring, assessment of the severity of natural disasters, precision farming operations, content production, aerial thermography and even delivery of parcels in isolated areas.
in writing. the report deals with the civil use of so-called 'drones', taking into account their proliferation, the issues it raises, in terms of security, recreation and others. this is the starting point for the defence of a specific, more complete and updated regulatory framework. the ground, however, gives rise to some suspicion, particularly as regards the use of such technologies for military purposes, which is not present in the report (except for a brief but elucidating reference to the ability of the israeli control system to combine civilian and military use), without safeguarding that public funding for the development of these technologies will subsequently be used militarily. the question of data protection and the protection of personal information is also proving problematic. the report does not go into this in the depth that was required, because these are devices that can easily be used for surveillance and access to personal data by governments, companies and individuals. this is already a common practice today, and will tend to increase as the use of drones becomes easier, unless this issue is properly safeguarded. something this report does not contribute to. we abstained.
‒ while recognising the advantages of using remote piloted aircraft systems, whether for safety inspections or disaster assessment, it is also necessary to highlight the possible unsafe and even illegal uses, the challenges posed to privacy, fundamental rights and safety. i share the view expressed in the document adopted, that a legal framework of its own should be created to ensure that all these issues are dealt with properly, without jeopardizing the development of a technological sector with great potential.
‒ the sector of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation, more commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs) or 'drones', requires a careful selection of rules at european and global level to enable the development and investment of this sector. in view of their economic potential, as well as the creation of jobs along the supply chain and the need to protect the public interest, in particular in matters relating to privacy, data protection, accountability and civil liability, it is essential to create a european legal framework appropriate to the type of flights these aircraft perform. the safe integration of the systems of remotely piloted aircraft and a risk assessment are essential in the field of their operations. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution, stressing the need to establish regulations on this subject within the european union, promoting the development and innovation of the european rpas market through european funding for research in this sector.
‒ the european commission is preparing a proposal, to be adopted by the end of 2015, which takes into account the riga declaration and the essential principles contained therein, concerning remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) and their inclusion in the 'aviation' package. it is therefore in line with the principles set out in the declaration that the european union should now develop a regulatory framework capable of balancing the need for full and safe integration in airspace with properly proportionate charges that do not hinder investment and the consequent growth of the sector. given that parliament also has a role to play in building responses to the challenges ahead in the field of aviation, i voted in favour of this report, as i consider the recommendations made in the committee on transport and tourism to be relevant.
‒ the report focuses on the civil use of drones, the economic and social relevance of which already warrants a regulatory framework. we have some concerns, particularly about the fact that there is no safeguard that public funding for the development of these technologies will not subsequently be internalised militarily. on the other hand, the question of the protection of data and information of individuals is not addressed and defended with the necessary depth. it should be noted that these are devices that can easily be used as means of surveillance and access to personal data by governments, companies and individuals.
‒ the report focuses on the civil use of drones, which already have relevance and greater economic, safety and recreational potential, lacking a regulatory framework. in our view, the report does not guarantee that public funding for the development of these technologies will not be internalised militarily, nor does it guarantee the protection of data and information of individuals, which is discussed and defended, but without much depth, in particular in the case of equipment that can easily be transformed into means of surveillance and access to personal data by governments, companies and individuals. we abstained.
‒ tourism is one of the sectors with the greatest growth potential in the european economy, generating more than 10% of european gdp and directly employing 13 million workers. in the face of the new realities facing the sector, the digital revolution and new technologies, competition from other destinations and the phenomena of the sharing economy, it is therefore urgent to reflect on the challenges and how to promote european tourism as a basis for economic growth and as a lever and instrument against the crisis. it is vital to keep up with the digital revolution, ensuring that all businesses, especially smes, can benefit from it, and the digital tourism platform launched by the european commission is to be congratulated, and to promote sustainable, competitive tourism, which promotes growth and employment and which always has the well-being of the tourist consumer at its core! the trust of consumers in tourism service providers is not only based on accurate and comprehensible information, but also on the availability of means to protect their rights and dispute resolution mechanisms. special attention should be paid to the potential of new forms of tourism and to different types of consumers, in particular the most vulnerable.
‒ tourism is one of the areas with the greatest growth potential in the european economy, generating more than 10% of eu gdp, if tourism-related sectors are included, employing 13 million workers directly and therefore accounting for at least 12% of eu employment. europe is the world's leading tourist destination with a 52% market share, and the number of international tourists arriving in the eu is expected to increase by 140 million per year by 2025. the sector employs 3.2 million people, mostly young people aged 16 to 35. i believe that the european commission should continue and improve the joint promotion of europe as the world's number one tourist destination and implement the 'destination europe 2020' strategy, which includes a set of marketing actions, a branding strategy and the promotion of europe as a tourist destination.
in writing. the report is based on a logic of promoting a scale of tourism that is 'continental', stressing that a very significant percentage of world tourism (52%) is in europe. while the report does contain some relevant and interesting recommendations, there are several aspects that we do not fully follow, at least in the wording adopted here, such as the insistence on a mythified 'european identity' and an alleged 'common cultural heritage', along with the subsidiary theses of creating a 'european brand' and 'pan-european products'. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'tourist' in the definition of tourist activities. but the report is concerned about the so-called unstable situation in the neighbouring countries, and it is based on considerations which are not immune from slipping into a xenophobic and neo-colonial logic (from facilitating entry for companies operating in the field of tourism in developing countries to refusing to take in refugees on grounds of 'sanitising' tourist spots) which, however, are not explained in these terms. one of the positive aspects to be highlighted is the reference, in several places, to decent working conditions as a factor of quality and tourist enhancement.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on new challenges and ideas for the development of tourism in europe. this is a vital sector for the european economy, which needs a clear framework for action defined by the commission to promote the member states as tourist destinations. the way tourism should be developed is based on assumptions of environmental responsibility, sustainability and social responsibility. the tourism sector is a sector par excellence with great dynamism, vitality and with a huge capacity to prove itself as an engine of economic growth for several member states.
‒ the motion for a resolution now before us responds to the european commission's 2010 communication 'europe, the world's number one tourist destination - a new policy framework for european tourism' and outlines the european parliament's position on the follow-up given by the ec services with regard to the updating of the implementation plan of the measures then adopted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing rules to include the possibility of a new regulation on the protection of the environment, in particular the regulation on the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon. in view of the foregoing and in the expectation that the commission will take account of the warnings made to the house by this resolution, i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
‒ the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has brought greater recognition to the importance of tourism as one of the sectors with the most growth potential in the european economy, generating more than 10% of european gdp. in the face of the new challenges, europe must adopt a differentiating strategy, highlighting its comparative advantages, in particular the diversity of its landscapes and the extraordinary wealth and cultural heritage it possesses. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. finally, i would just like to emphasise that i support a european tourism strategy based on sustainability criteria, which means that in this context it is essential to promote initiatives that promote responsible management of resources, with reliable indicators and initiatives that reward the merit of 'environmentally friendly' destinations. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour of this report.
the report is based on the logic of promoting a european scale of tourism, marketing for 'europe' and even a specific budget line, the creation of a european tourism agency with the definition of a common european brand, etc. we note in the report a concern about the unstable situation in the neighbouring countries and its impact on european tourism. it should be noted that all these issues, if understood in their context, can easily slip into a more xenophobic and neo-colonial logic, such as facilitating entry to companies operating in the field of tourism in developing countries or refusing to take in refugees on grounds of "sanitizing" the spots. we welcome the emphasis on decent working conditions as a factor of quality and tourism development.
‒ the report is based on the logic of promoting a 'continental' scale of tourism, stressing that a very significant percentage of world tourism (52%) is in europe. it emphasises a european union approach, a common european position, with the establishment of a marketing for 'europe', a specific budget line, the creation of a european tourism agency, the definition of a common european brand, pan-european products, the promotion of a european identity and a common cultural heritage, a system for the classification of tourist infrastructures, a european system of indicators and the definition of european quality standards for tourist guides. the report calls on the european commission to assess the impact of the uncontrolled flow of migrants into the eu on the sector. all these issues can easily lead to a more xenophobic and neo-colonial logic, such as the refusal to accept refugees on grounds of "sanitizing" the spots. one of the positive points to be highlighted is the reference, in several places, to decent working conditions as a factor of quality and tourist development. given that there are both positive and negative aspects, we abstained.
‒ the tragedies of air france flights af447 and malaysia airlines mh370 have highlighted the need for new systems to determine the position of passenger aircraft at any time, even in remote locations. these global air traffic management (atm) surveillance systems will make it easier to determine the location of aircraft in the event of abnormal, emergency or accident behaviour, should not be affected by the loss of normal on-board electrical power and should not be able to be deactivated in flight. i support the development of a performance-based global flight tracking system that allows air navigation service providers to determine the position of passenger aircraft at any time, even in remote locations, and that should be developed through strong cooperation between all stakeholders.
the resolution calls for the deployment/improvement of a satellite system that allows the position of passenger aircraft to be determined at any time, even in remote locations, taking into account recent tragic events. the resolution calls on the european commission to take the necessary measures, with a view to the next world radiocommunication conference (wrc-15) to be held in geneva in november 2015, with regard to the allocation of the radio spectrum needed to support the future development of this system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in this chapter there are many factors which would be interesting to examine in depth (although it is understandable that this resolution does not do so) and which could interfere with the safety of this mode of transport, particularly in terms of the effects of the liberalisation and privatisation of the sector, the monopolistic concentration associated with it and the attack on rights, wages and jobs which underlies it. it is also true that the use of this type of technology carries risks relating to the possibility of its dual use, which should not be ignored.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the following areas: the tragedies of air france flight 1 june 2009 and malaysia airlines flight 8 march 2014 have led to the need to develop and adopt new systems that allow the location of flights even in remote areas. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution.
‒ the tragedies of air france flight af447 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 have highlighted the need to rapidly develop new flight tracking systems on a global scale, taking into account the lessons learned from these tragedies. in future, the systems to be developed must not be affected by the loss of on-board electrical power, cannot be deactivated in flight and must finally cover areas where radar coverage is limited (including oceans and uninhabited land areas). to this end, and in order to avoid interference with flight records, it will be necessary to allocate an appropriate radio spectrum, to be determined by the world radiocommunication conference. the rapporteur assessed a set of documents relating to the tracking and tracing of aircraft and gave a favourable opinion on the measures already put in place by the commission. i voted in favour.
‒ the tragedies of malaysia airlines flight 370 and air france flight 447 have highlighted the vulnerabilities of current air navigation systems that prevented them from detecting and identifying in time aircraft in difficulty. flight tracking systems currently cover only about 30% of the world's airspace. the ads-b (automatic broadcast dependent surveillance) system by satellite, according to the international civil aviation organization (icao), is a technology that could contribute to better air traffic monitoring. this system will help governments, air navigation service providers and airlines in europe and the rest of the world to increase the efficiency and capacity of air traffic management. we welcome all steps which can help to improve passenger safety. we would remind you, however, that this step must always ensure public control of these systems.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would like to say to the vice-president that it is very important at this time for parliament to express its concerns on the economic and social priorities for the european union over the next year. yes, there are some signs of recovery, but it is still a mild recovery. my question is about the strategy to foster growth in europe. we can see that, so far, this strategy is mainly led by exports. we do, of course, need to have a competitive economy, but we believe that this is also the right moment to invest more in domestic demand. we need to foster european domestic demand. this means, first of all, pushing for more private and public investment. it also means encouraging consumption, particularly among the middle classes and those who are more impoverished. so we are calling for a new policy mix where investment is really at the top, where reforms are needed. but the reforms should focus mainly on growth potential, innovation, education and energy transition, making sure, too, that we can keep sustainable social welfare systems. to add to this policy mix, we should also focus on reducing social inequalities. this means a very active social policy. we think that fiscal consolidation should indeed be pursued, but in such a way that it is consistent with these previous goals. i would say that this new policy mix should be particularly rigorously applied in the euro area, and that is why we need to reduce the macroeconomic and macro-social imbalances which we have in the euro area and which are undermining its long-term sustainability. parliament will be very active all through this cycle of the european semester. we will come forward with a strong and clear position before the spring european council, but we are also concerned by the recent package presented by the commission, because we think that parliament should be more involved when designing the new instruments – competitiveness boards, the european fiscal board, the way for the euro area to manage its external representation and, finally, the way to conduct the european semester with a proper interinstitutional agreement.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate vice-president dombrovskis and the commission on its work in the run-up to the european semester 2016 and, in particular, on its approach to the question of growth, structural reforms and the social effects which the joint action of these measures obviously has on the various member states. i would like to welcome all the work that has been done; i would like to say that i agree with the commission's guidelines in general and in particular with those which point to the idea that all this work should be done with respect for budgetary consolidation. i would like to draw attention to the particular situation in portugal, where the portuguese government has just been dismissed by the assembly of the republic, with full legitimacy, but where an agreement has been reached by the forces of the extreme left with the socialist party, which, in view of the figures presented, calls into question the balance that has been maintained in portugal up to now. i am extremely concerned about the increase in consumption which will be made in a completely disorderly way and, therefore, in this sense, that we may be putting at risk all the efforts that the portuguese people have made during these years and which have ensured a very significant decrease in unemployment, a growth which, not being exceptional, is relatively inspiring and therefore drew the attention of the commission to the fact that these budgetary objectives and these overall policy objectives are being pursued and that all the efforts that the portuguese population has made over these four years and which were having such promising and inspiring results, leaving portugal, moreover, already out of the excessive deficit procedure from 2016 onwards, should not be thrown away. all this is bound up with the agreements reached and i would therefore like to draw attention to this point. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would like to take this opportunity to ask my colleague paulo rangel whether he does not know that the problem in portugal is unemployment, lack of demand, poverty and the miserable situation to which the government has brought us with the help of structural reforms; and that he would explain to me, then, what is the contradiction between improving wages, improving the labour market, improving demand and economic growth and development, because if the european semester has as its priority economic growth and development, tell me how to improve wages, pensions and demand is contradictory to this.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. it seems to me that it is obvious what can happen. look, nobody's against a relief in the austerity situation. it's just a matter of speed and gradualism. we know that for the left bloc, which is a radical left party, which is really a party against the european union as we conceive it, and against the euro itself as we conceive it, which is a party that is not concerned about the deficit, for whom it can be spent, that thinks there should be a unilateral debt forgiveness of 50 or 60 percent, none of this makes sense. now, for those who are committed to the european objectives and the strategic objectives of the european union, it is clear that this could be a disaster and we do not want portugal to go into disaster and go back to the bankruptcy it was in 2011, which the socialists have already put us there and now they are promising us again that it will happen.
mr. vice president, well, first of all, i'd like to calm you down a little. you need not be concerned about what is happening in portugal, because what is happening in portugal is democracy and should not cause any unrest in the house of democracy. the european semester is itself contradictory and deeply contradictory. i would like to say, mr vice-president, if you are bothering to listen, but since you are not, i will say that coming from a country where the structural reforms have been applied in theory and where public debt has risen to an unprecedented level, there must be special attention to employment and social issues. but it is not enough for you to put it in your speech and say that you will pay particular attention to it when, at the same time, you say that structural reforms must be implemented without any minimal adjustment to suit the country and the circumstances of each country. so this application is nothing but the generalization of precarious ties, low wages, poor workers, immigration. these are the social consequences of labour market reforms, of structural reforms. so this contradiction has to be resolved. either it is more social, or there are more structural reforms. we cannot repeat the same policies without taking account of the results they have produced.
mr president, i regret that i was not given the opportunity to speak when my colleague, mr paulo rangel, spoke. but in the meantime i will speak in english for the benefit of the commissioner. my first sentence is just to confirm something. despite what party politics may inspire in my colleague, paulo rangel, i want to reassure you that the socialist party in portugal has always been the most pro-european party and that the programme of the government that has been prepared as an alternative to the one that has just been dismissed is fully in line with portugal's commitments in relation to europe and, in particular, compliance in the governance framework. this is an assurance that i do not think any party politics should be jeopardized, and i hope and trust that if this government is brought to power with the support, in the portuguese parliament, of the parties on the left, this is considered as a normal, democratic procedure and that as commissioner, you will be thinking and acting independently of party politics. so this is something i want to reassure you on, and i really regret that after such a dramatic, negative attack on democracy and on his own country, mr paulo rangel just left the hemicycle and is not here for the full debate. having said that, i have other matters to which i would like to draw your attention. one of them is, necessarily, the need to reassess the other instruments, apart from monetary policy, that we can use to relaunch growth in europe. this is somewhere where europe is lagging behind when compared with the united states. the second is on the completion of banking union. however, the fact that this terrible attack on my own country was prepared and made here in this parliament has forced me to diverge from my previously organized speech. but i hope you will be sound and institutional in the assessment of democracy and its consequences in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 1628)
he asks under the blue card procedure. well, at this moment we do not know of any programme of the socialist party in portugal, contrary to what the honourable member has said. what i would like to know is very simple: if your lines of action, these five which have already been presented, increase public expenditure and reduce revenue, how can the honourable member at this moment guarantee that we in portugal will maintain the balance of public accounts and that we will fulfil our european obligations?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. if you are talking about the programme that the socialist party has presented and worked on, and which has now been adjusted in accordance with a legitimate agreement, in accordance with the votes of the portuguese citizens, the honourable member has to say here, and confirm, that it does not in the least jeopardise either the commitments regarding the implementation of the stability and growth pact or the commitments regarding the mto. this was the fundamental benchmark on which all the proposals were worked, and they were worked out in detail, which never existed and does not exist in the epp programme, and does not exist and did not exist in the coalition programme for portugal. and that is what is unfortunate, that you speak of politics . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, europe, the european union, remains stagnant, despite a favourable exchange rate, low energy costs and a colossal injection of liquidity from the european central bank, which amounts to almost half of the euro area's gdp. there is no sign of a solid recovery in the economy, as is shown by the weak level of private investment. as regards the european semester, the european commission still does not want to call the rules into question, despite the fact that the overwhelming majority of countries do not respect them. it finds that the vast majority of country recommendations are not followed but, instead of questioning these recommendations, prefers to blame governments for their non-application and thus in practice proposes mechanisms to increase pressure on national states in order to impose its neoliberal vision on economies. at the same time as it preaches democratic legitimacy, it creates anti-democratic institutions, such as taxation councils, which in practice will only reinforce the mechanisms of interference that prevent any possibility of alternative development.
mr president, i would ask you to confirm whether i have time to speak, since my group indicated that i would have a minute and a half to speak as rapporteur for the committee on employment on a list which has been corrected and on which the coordinator of the committee on employment does not speak. i'd like you to run that check, please. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i am pleased to note, mr president, that the commission intends to give greater weight to the defence of social issues in this annual growth review and we need to tackle problematic structural issues such as unemployment, youth unemployment, longterm unemployment, poverty indicators and the ageing of the population. as rapporteur for employment, this european semester aims to defend the balance between a social and a market economy so that we are able to respond to internal and external challenges in the european union. i understand that it is in this line that greater competitiveness contributes to greater social justice and that this greater social justice itself stimulates competitiveness and therefore people must be sure, they must have a guarantee that they can foresee and organise their lives and this is only possible if we can guarantee the sustainability of public accounts, fiscal responsibility and budgetary balance. i am also glad to know that the commission intends to do different things, in a different way. we must fight for a union in europe which promotes social cohesion, paying particular attention to the most disadvantaged regions, so that we do not become a two-speed europe. this is the responsibility that is demanded of us.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. but commissioner dombrovskis, i ask you: is the european commission not ashamed of the inequality actively fostered by the policies that the troika has blessed in portugal, including the 2012 tax amnesty, which has served to launder, legalise and keep billions in tax havens, without even forcing them to repatriate, despite being the product of tax fraud and evasion and corruption? or does it continue to ignore the scheme of tax benefits and exemptions which the portuguese government has been pursuing in total opacity for the past four years, favouring large companies and big capital, while taxing the working people? will the commission use the european semester to correct regressive and obscene tax policies in portugal and other member states with pro-european, pro-growth, pro-social and tax justice policies?
the european union remains stagnant. despite a favourable exchange rate, low energy costs and the massive liquidity injection by the ecb, which amounts to almost half of euro area gdp, there is no sign of a solid recovery in the economy, as evidenced by the weak level of private investment. as regards the european semester, the european commission still does not want to call the rules into question, even though the overwhelming majority of countries do not respect them. it finds that the vast majority of country-specific recommendations are not followed, but rather than questioning these recommendations, it prefers to blame governments for not implementing them. and so it is proposing in practice mechanisms to increase the pressure on the national states in order to impose its neoliberal vision on the economies. at the same time as it preaches democratic legitimacy, it creates more undemocratic institutions which are only accountable to the commission and will reinforce, under the guise of neutral and scientific expertise, all the mechanisms of interference which prevent any possibility of alternative development by the member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges facing the european aviation industry are indeed enormous. we are talking about airlines, we are talking about the aviation industry, but also about airports, and airports are facing exponential competition, many of them unfair competition from third countries. in the last ten years, connectivity at european airports has been decreasing in contrast to an increase at non-european airports and these changes, and some changes in the routes of some flights, have particularly affected regional airports. that is why i wanted to take this opportunity to address the commissioner and say that i believe it is crucial that the commission, within this package, presents a strategy for regional airports which takes account of the state aid guidelines and which considers regional airports as part of the solution to decongestion of central airports. finally, i believe we need a clear vision from the commission, because these regional airports link people, places, goods and services. air transport and its infrastructure, the infrastructure that supports it, it must be remembered, are also gateways for tourists. and what a sector for the economies of the regions! airports are central to social and economic cohesion, also in the outermost regions such as madeira.
mr president, the law passed last october is patently ambiguous. while it prohibits discrimination in data to ensure net neutrality, it also opens up multiple exceptions to unclear boundaries that give operators wide scope for abuse, thus favouring their own services and harming other operators. it allows, among other things, specialized services and privileged access over normal internet traffic, among other things. this issue is part of the struggle for dominance of the vast virtual territory of the web, which today represents a huge potential source of revenue for the greed of big business. it is in this context that we can understand this debate on the relevance of a zero rate which should be beneficial to the citizen, but which, in the light of this law of savage capitalism, can be turned into a weapon in the service of the big groups to destroy competition and increase their monopoly incomes. we therefore underline the need to continue to push for public control over this fundamental infrastructure, which today carries a predominant and growing part of our economy.
madam president, member states will now receive eur 9.4 billion from the european union budget at the end of the year. revenue that was not planned, additional revenue, extraordinary revenue. of this eur 9.4 billion, eur 2.3 billion is revenue from fines and also from customs duties. the member states must put into these two trust funds for syria and africa an amount exactly equal to that which the council owes. this means that without any additional financial effort, without any effort being made to the national budgets, the member states can use eur 2 300 million to meet their commitments to these two funds. this refugee crisis, which is an obligation, this refugee crisis, where the problems must be solved at the source, is something we have to take on, all the institutions must participate and these two funds will give hope, they will give guarantees of a better future. they'll contribute to the education of the people in their origin, they'll prevent. it is always better to be safe than sorry and i hope that the additional amounts that the european union budget will give to national budgets will be used to help solve this problem. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, the united kingdom, like the other member states, will receive additional funds. it is up to them, it is up to them to use this money for this purpose. what i have tried to say is that no taxpayer in any country, with these 2.300 million euros of additional revenue from fines and customs duties, no national taxpayer would be penalized for this purpose and this way of acting. it is also all too obvious that these funds must be well used, they must be well managed. the objectives must be achieved, they must be followed. the seriousness and efficiency of the management of these funds are beyond question. it is clear that this is not always achieved in every member state, in every organisation.
mr president, while ignoring the underlying humanitarian problems that need to be addressed, we cannot but condemn this european union which destroys with one hand and now tries to remedy the evil it has created with small crumbs. the european union is complicit in all this barbarism. it is complicit in the destruction of sovereign countries like libya, iraq or syria. it has blood on its hands from the death of thousands of innocent people, as well as from the wave of refugees who continue to flee the war, now facing the cynicism of the european institutions. there are no values that justify these crimes and history will condemn the leaders who have dragged the european union and its countries into this slaughter.
we have always considered it a colossal mistake to add the dafne programme to a broader programme, to remove the specificity of this objective and, above all, to remove the allocation of own resources which can only be used for this purpose, i.e. own resources for the fight against violence against women. it is clear that this strategy is part of a conservative approach to the issue, which tries to hide the fact that discrimination against women is a structural injustice in our societies and which tries to take away from the struggle of women the centrality that, for example, this programme gave. the committee on women's rights and gender equality itself, when discussing the regulation of the current multiannual financial framework in its opinion, for which i was rapporteur, urged the commission and the council to take account of the issue of gender equality as a specific objective in the law and citizenship programme and to maintain the dafne programme as an independent sub-heading of this programme. this position has been completely ignored.
madam president, once again the european commission has tried to interfere in decisions which must be taken in a sovereign and unconditional manner. during the process of forming the government in portugal following the elections on 4 october, commissioner dombrovskis threatened to punish my country with sanctions for not having delivered the 2016 state budget proposal. more recently, he has again referred to portugal, anticipating a catastrophe if portugal does not follow the course it has followed up to now, a course which has led to the impoverishment and destruction of the rights of the portuguese people. commissioner oettinger awarded the european of the year prize of the german association of newspaper and magazine publishers to the 11 million portuguese, justifying it by saying that portugal had implemented the troika programme well and had found the way to more jobs. he said that the award was also a request that the 11 million should be used to maintain stability. these interventions are a disgrace, an attack on the sovereignty and democratic system of the countries.
madam president, the ecb, the european central bank, is today the most powerful institution in the european union and at the same time the most obscure and the least scrutinized. its operation, based on a purported technical, apolitical or neutral mission, represents a huge deception for the peoples of europe. it has only recently been reported that the members of its executive board have been happily meeting with representatives of the major financial groups on the eve of the announcement of key monetary policy decisions, such as interest rates or asset purchase operations. the question of monetary policy is also important. with negative interest rates, favourable exchange rates, low crude oil prices and all this accompanied by an almost unlimited injection of liquidity, the sum of which already represents half of the euro area's gdp, how can we explain the complete stagnation of our economies? we have no illusions about this model. europe is in a structural crisis and will only emerge from it with a deep break in this capitalist model which is incapable of responding to the problems of society.
‒ since the launch of the inter-administration data exchange programme in 1995, the european commission has been promoting with the member states solutions that allow data exchange within their administrations and between them and the eu institutions. the introduction of businesses and citizens as the target audience of the programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2) is an important sign of progress that will contribute to the modernisation of the public sector by providing more effective and efficient responses to the needs of civil society. i therefore support the development of the one-stop shop for good practice (joinup platform) and consider it essential to safeguard privacy and security from the perspective of administrations, businesses and citizens. i support this report by mr zorrinho because the isa2 programme is linked to other initiatives that contribute to the modernisation of public administrations in europe and is a contribution to the completion of the digital single market and the implementation of an ambitious european digital agenda.
‒ the european commission has set up a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2), which enable data exchange within their administrations and between their administrations and the eu institutions. the decision taken, which i agree with, not only follows the path followed, but also opens a new cycle which takes account of technological developments, the new needs of administrations and civil society and the new opportunities offered by cloud computing. interoperability increasingly promotes the potential quality of public services and creates a context of increased competitiveness for businesses and increased satisfaction for citizens, contributes to the achievement of the digital single market and to the implementation of an ambitious, globally leading and socially inclusive european digital agenda. the programme shall enter into force on 1 january 2016 and shall mobilise funding of eur 131 million for a period of five years.
‒ interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and citizens are an essential tool for enabling data exchange between administrations and the european commission. with technological developments, the public sector needs to be modernised to respond more effectively and efficiently to the needs of citizens and businesses. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it has contributed to the achievement of the digital single market and to the implementation of the european digital agenda.
‒ interoperability of public administrations-citizens-businesses within the eu maximises the economic and even social potential of information and communication technologies and it is to this extent that this report is a relevant step towards the creation of a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens, within the framework of the european digital agenda. the interoperability solutions programme for european public administrations (isa) has proved to be key to the coherent development and implementation of global and sectoral strategies to overcome electronic barriers in the union and to improve efficient and effective cross-border or cross-sector electronic interaction between european public administrations and between businesses and citizens. with the isa programme ending at the end of this year, it is necessary to establish a new eu programme for 2016-2020, which promotes the reduction of cross-border administrative costs, barriers and burdens, and deepens the internal market and freedom of movement in the eu. in this respect, i agree overall with the objectives set out in this report and support the need to provide for an increase in financial allocations for interoperability solutions between eu public administrations, which is consistent with the current multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
‒ since 1995, the european commission has been promoting with the member states interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens, and mechanisms that allow data exchange within their administrations and between their administrations and the eu institutions. we are supporting all measures aimed at modernising the various services of the public administration, and in particular those aimed at dematerializing part of the documentation. however, access to and the universality of these services should be safeguarded by combating any form of exclusion, particularly in relation to those who have difficulties with new technologies and the internet. we also believe that these developments should not, under any circumstances, jeopardize the existence of local services, particularly in regions which are socially, economically and demographically depressed.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the programme for interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens - isa2 and aims to continue the inter-administration data exchange programme ida - launched in 1995 with the aim of promoting with the member states solutions that allow for the exchange of data within their administrations and between them and the eu institutions. the document is essentially an important sign of progress towards modernising and interoperability of the public sector so that it can respond more effectively and efficiently to current needs, particularly in the field of new technologies and cloud computing. although this is an important step in updating and adapting the programme, it is stressed that the necessary data protection safeguards must be taken and that therefore computer resources, among other things, should remain the exclusive domain of public administrations. moreover, the necessary progress in this field should not call into question other measures and other means of supporting the provision of public services to the population throughout the territory of the member states and should be complementary. we voted yes.
‒ the deepening of european democracy that has been taking place over the last decades has one of its major expressions and causes in the election by universal suffrage of the european parliament. although the possibility had been enshrined since 1957, it was not until the so-called "electoral act" of 1976 that universal suffrage was put into practice. in 2002 the first - and so far only - reform was carried out. over the years, parliament has progressively reflected its increased democratic legitimacy through an increase in its powers, being now co-legislator - with the council of ministers - on almost all matters. we are left with 28 national elections to the european parliament, but we must bring europeans closer to the only institution that directly represents them. many factors are involved, including a better electoral law. i therefore support the report on the reform of eu electoral law in general, although i disagree with some of the points which deserve further reflection, such as the immediate creation of a european circle and the right to vote at the age of 16.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the reform of the electoral act of 1976 requires member states to allow electronic voting and the internet in elections to the european parliament. the vote by mail should also be allowed in the european elections. the amendment aims to increase participation and facilitate voting for all citizens, especially people with reduced mobility and people working or living abroad. the current european electoral legislation allows for a non-binding limit of up to 5% of the votes cast for european elections. in the smaller member states and in those member states which have subdivided their territory into constituencies, although there is no limit, the de facto limit remains above 3%.
in writing. ‒ we need greater citizen participation in european elections to make the work of the european parliament even more legitimate and to enhance the effectiveness of our decisions. if the aim is to involve more and more citizens in political decisions at european level, it is essential to consider harmonizing the minimum voting age to 16, as is already the case in austria, for example. many young people are studying or doing an internship in other eu countries, and many citizens are working in member states other than their own. i therefore believe that it is increasingly important to introduce electronic voting as a key means of promoting and facilitating greater participation in the electoral process. it should also be stressed that the european parliament advocates the adoption of open and transparent procedures for the selection of candidates in order to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of representatives at european level. the resolution adopted today also advocates the choice of a common day for the 28 member states for the elections to the european parliament, the closing of the polls at the same time (20h00 portugal) and a common deadline for finalising the electoral rolls (8 weeks).
‒ elections are the main instrument of democratic participation and, in this sense, i welcome, in particular, the solutions to introduce the right to vote in european elections for all citizens of the union residing outside the eu and the possibility of electronic voting, via the internet or by post, as a way of promoting greater participation and electoral fairness by citizens, reinforcing the concept of citizenship of the union and improving the functioning of the european parliament and the governance of the institutions. the amendments to the proposed amendment to the electoral act 1976 contain controversial aspects such as the introduction of a mandatory minimum threshold of between 3% and 5% for the allocation of mandates, the harmonisation of the minimum voting age to 16, the introduction of alternate (gender) lists on ballot papers and the creation of a transnational list. i generally regard the solutions put forward as positive. however, i did not support the proposal to harmonise the minimum voting age to 16, considering it more important to preserve the traditions of each member state (the principle of subsidiarity), nor the creation of a common electoral constituency which is not based on a subsequent council decision.
‒ i voted in favour of the hübner/leinen report on the reform of the electoral law for the european elections because its proposals represent, in general, a significant advance in the functioning of european democracy and a strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the union's institutions. in particular, the visibility of european political parties on ballot papers and campaign materials greatly enhances transparency so that citizens know who they are voting for. furthermore, greater harmonisation of electoral rules, now largely regulated by different national laws, promotes the unity of the electoral act, voter participation and equality between european citizens. although i have reservations about the proposal to create a common european electoral area based on a transnational list, a complex issue which would require further development, my final vote in favour took into account that this proposal is part of the overall, very positive commitment reached between various political groups in the european parliament and that its implementation is still dependent on a unanimous decision by the council.
‒ this reform of the electoral law is yet another manifestation of pure hypocrisy. the eu preaches democracy but continues to armor up all its instruments and mechanisms for imposing its neoliberal policy and its unique thinking on citizens and nation states. so it was in referendums, so it is in economic governance and so it is at the level of the ecb that continues to determine what states should or should not do under penalty of cutting access to credit. if there is any doubt, look at greece. the fact that we are in agreement with european parties or with measures to standardize electoral practices in each member state does not mask this reality. we no longer support this attempt to federalize the process of electing the european parliament and we reject the attempt to impose criteria which are linked to the practice and experience of each national state. nor do we recognise any legitimacy for the eu to give lessons in democracy to anyone.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of increasing transparency, increasing democracy, strengthening the concept of 'european citizenship' and harmonising the process of elections to the ep, what is proposed in this report is the deepening of federalism. the report advocates the inclusion of the names and logos of european political parties on ballot papers and their use on posters and other material used in campaigns for elections to the ep; encouraging member states to facilitate the participation of european political parties in electoral campaigns; the creation of an eu electoral circle (25 meps); the creation of a european electoral authority. it also proposes that 'national' parties should 'elect their candidates for the ep elections in a 'democratic' way, which means imposing ways of functioning on the parties. the report argues that meps have become representatives of the eu's citizens. all these positions seek to deepen federalism, to remove the sovereignty of the member states and to unify the thinking of meps who, in this light, must no longer be representatives of the people who elect them, but must be subordinated to the logic of the eu and the parties to which they belong. it's an attack on democracy. we voted against it.
‒ the air transport sector represents a huge market at european level, representing a considerable value in european gdp and providing a large number of jobs. the commission will present a package on aviation by the end of 2015 to identify and address the challenges facing the eu aviation sector. it is important to stress that the measures adopted will ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the sector (threatened by competition both on the internal and external markets) on the one hand, and high safety, labour and environmental standards on the other. i share the concern that this new package should be consistent with passenger rights legislation, so as to create a clear and easy-to-understand body of legislation for both consumers and air carriers.
in europe, the economy of the air transport sector directly contributed to 2.6 million jobs and accounted for more than 2.4% of eu gdp, and in 2014 849.4 million passengers were transported by air in the eu, an increase of 4.4% compared to 2013 and 16.9% compared to 2009. however, the environment around the companies areas is changing rapidly, which has already led to the elimination of more than 20 000 jobs. against this background, the presentation of an aviation package aimed at identifying and responding to the challenges facing the eu aviation sector is of the utmost importance, including in order to strengthen its sustainability and competitiveness, consolidate european airlines, airports and the aviation industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and define a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
‒ european airports are easily undervalued over other international airports for reasons ranging from the lack of regulation of air transport to the lack of subsidies. it is therefore important to establish comprehensive aviation agreements with the european union's most important trading partners as a strategic objective, allowing european airlines to be relieved of national and community burdens, thus strengthening the competitiveness of this important sector at european level. in this way we are also contributing to greater cohesion of the regions as a strategic pillar for growth and employment and for increased turnover. improving the competitiveness and ensuring the sustainability of the sector, which is expected to double air traffic by 2030, is an important basis for employment growth in the european union, as the report in question argues. for these reasons, i support the report for a resolution on aviation in and out of the european airspace.
‒ unsurprisingly, this european parliament resolution remains in line with the previous packages on aviation and the single european sky. in other words, they end up supporting the commission's positions and its proposals for the liberalisation and outsourcing of airport services. the resolution states in particular that: urges the commission and the member states to accelerate the implementation of the single european sky by adopting the ses2+ package because the current fragmentation of european airspace places additional burdens on european airlines; that is why we are voting against it.
the resolution calls for a set of measures to be included in the future aviation package. in general, the measures focus on increasing the competitiveness of eu aviation systems in the face of other realities (notably in the middle east) for which the development of a number of areas, based on the deepening of the single european sky, would be key. the single european sky project is, from its inception, inseparable from the intention of liberalising the air transport sector. the underlying vision is not the development of the sector according to a logic of the prevalence of the public interest, but rather the alignment of airspace management with the interests of the large airlines and the monopolistic concentration in progress. the arguments that have been advanced over the years in favour of the 'single european sky' are subsidiary to this objective and are without foundation. we voted against it.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, mr fjellner has made another of the usual professions of faith in the free market. but if free trade is so important for development, how does mr felner explain that most developing countries - for example, the acp countries - have resisted, as long as they could, the attempt by the european union to impose free trade agreements, the so-called economic partnership agreements? if it's so good for them, why did they resist while they could? and, by the way, give us examples of developed countries that are, industrialized countries that have reached this condition without a strong protectionist policy over the years.
mr president, commissioner malmström reminded us that the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation is less than a month away, but we must admit that the preparatory work is far from satisfactory and that we cannot expect a success in nairobi. and no bilateral or regional agenda is a substitute for an ambitious and balanced multilateral agenda. this is a multilateral meeting, commissioner. and there is therefore no success possible without building, in this preparatory phase, the right alliances and strong alliances towards a more equitable and sustainable development, which uses trade in the right way. what i ask the commissioner is what is the european commission doing and what can it still do up to nairobi to build these right alliances, these strong alliances, for a success at this interministerial conference?
madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the conclusion of the free trade agreement with vietnam, which is an important partner of the european union in the context of south-east asia. this is the first new generation trade agreement with a developing country and can therefore be a model for future agreements with asean countries. but trade is not an end in itself, and the union's own trade and investment strategy underlines the need for trade agreements to promote european values and, in particular, human rights. we have good reason to be concerned about the respect for human rights in vietnam, in particular freedom of expression. and this house insisted that the european commission apply an approach based on conditionality in its trade agreements. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner what progress has been made in vietnam on human rights since the start of the trade negotiations and what lessons we should learn from this process. can we consider, can the commission consider that this agreement with vietnam has in fact respected the principle of human rights conditionality in a trade agenda?
madam president, how far should we go in terms of animal welfare legislation? it is a question that has been based on a compromise between improving the physical and psychological health of the animals and the financial impact on the producers. with the intensification of production, we can never give up on the objectives of continuously improving animal welfare. as regards the welfare of aquatic animals, it is necessary to ensure that aquaculture production, and especially intensive aquaculture production, has the appropriate conditions. we know that some of the conditions of stabilization are questionable to say the least. i therefore ask the commission to indicate the results of scientific research carried out under the 2012-2015 strategy. there are also issues related to animal suffering during the fishing process. i would point out that this issue was omitted in the 2012 commission and it was worth starting its reflection for the future.
the attacks on animal welfare are a consequence of an agriculture increasingly subject to the logic of profit in an increasingly competitive global market. the absurd levels of production intensity we have in the european union, whether in the case of piglets or intensive pig, poultry or rabbit production, are not the result of any whim on the part of our farmers. this is a contingency which forces them to maximise animal productivity, otherwise they simply cannot guarantee the profitability of their farms. it's this contingency that's unresolved. a contradiction between an increasingly liberal, market-oriented cap that pushes farmers towards productivist models where profit is put above animal welfare, and also all the scientific evidence that warns us every day of the need to stop this madness. stop in the name of animal welfare, biodiversity and public health. so it's important to extend our agricultural equation to other social and environmental variables, in the name of our planet's survival.
the rapporteur. - madam president, in the european union today more than one in four children live at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in 2013, 26.5 million children in the european union were at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion. these are dramatic numbers. the policies that have impoverished families in the european union are the same ones that have pushed children into poverty by denying them many of the rights enshrined in the convention on the rights of the child, including the rights to health, education and social protection. in this report we have made very clear what the various studies pointed out, but what seems to have been ignored by those who insisted on austerity policies, so-called fiscal consolidation. the main factors contributing to child poverty are policies of redistribution of wealth, the effectiveness of government intervention through income support. it is clear that increasing employment is the most effective instrument in the fight against poverty. it is clear that the degradation of wage policies and social protection systems at national level is increasing child poverty. but the job itself is not enough. the tragedy of today is that the risk of child poverty persists in families with a high work intensity, as is the case in romania, lithuania, portugal, spain and others. it is now known that working parents who do not have access to childcare are often forced to leave their children in the care of another child or to resort to paid and uncertified informal care networks, which puts the safety and well-being of children at risk. in this report, we therefore recommend that member states introduce labour laws that guarantee social rights, including an appropriate mandatory minimum wage that respects national practices and collective agreements and that provides greater security for families and combats precarious ties by promoting work with social rights. in this report we therefore urge the european commission to refrain from recommending reforms and cuts in the public administration of the member states, from promoting the flexibilization of labour relations and the privatization of public services, which have unequivocally led to the weakening of children's social rights. but there is a fundamental perspective in this report: that effective poverty prevention policies are those that ensure universal and free access to public services, not those that are only concerned with compensating children already in child poverty. it is the studies that conclude that universal support policies offer better protection against child poverty. in this report, therefore, we advocate high-quality, free, universal public services, particularly in the areas of childcare, education, health, housing and leisure activities. we therefore advocate universal social subsidies for children as their own and intrinsic right. we encourage legislation that protects or increases maternity and paternity rights, safeguards women's return to work after pregnancy and maternity leave and supports single-parent families, which are predominantly female. in our report we consider not only monetary poverty but also multidimensional deprivation, and therefore we advocate statistical methods that integrate multidimensional indicators. we also believe that the european union's structural funds should be used more effectively to combat child poverty. we will vote against the parties included in the report who believe that this tragedy can be resolved through the european semester or the rules of economic and monetary union, because we believe that what is largely causing the problem must be tackled and cannot be part of the solution. finally, we would like to thank all those who contributed to the preparation of this report, in particular the various portuguese and international organisations that fight against child poverty on a daily basis.
mr president, commissioner, it takes a very fragmented and very biased reading of the united nations charter to consider - as this report does - that the european union is revising its principles and values. what, for example, of the military aggression against sovereign and independent countries such as iraq, libya and syria, actively promoted and carried out also by countries of the european union? two examples which this report does not mention are the role of the european union, which the european union has been playing in the united nations general assembly, where it should not have a seat. the first example is the discussion on a multilateral framework for the restructuring of sovereign debts. a matter of the utmost importance to several countries of the european union. what is the european union doing? it does not follow the very important debate and boycotts it from various points of view, making sure that no substantive conclusions are drawn from it. another point: the resolution on the right to public water and sanitation. what has the european union done? what have the countries of the european union done? once again they did not vote for this very important resolution and they voted for an ambiguous abstention in most cases, failing to adopt those important principles against the privatisation of water and water services.
mr president, the situation of the migrants who are travelling along the balkan route, in an unstoppable and significant flow, is of the greatest concern from a humanitarian point of view. this situation has been aggravated in recent days by the imposition by several countries of discriminatory and illegal barriers to the movement of persons on the basis of their nationality. measures that add to acts of violence and extortion committed by the authorities against helpless and vulnerable people. this situation requires an urgent response. the only response that is compatible with some of the values and principles that the european union likes to proclaim but does not practice is the one that is required. the only answer compatible with the human rights of those fleeing the misery, chaos and war that the european union has helped to sow and actively nurtured. in other words, the creation of safe and legal migration routes that dismantle the trafficking networks that feed on repressive and criminalizing migration policies. we also insist on the proposal to transfer funds allocated to border surveillance to measures of reception, support and social integration.
mr president, commissioner, first of all we regret that at the time of our discussion of this report it is not yet available in all the official languages of the european union, but only in german, english and french. the commissioner will tell us why this is so, but perhaps this is the best evidence of the interests which inspire the common energy market and the so-called energy union - a project tailored to the major european monopolies in the sector. these reports are, after all, nothing more than your specifications. they are the ones who are dictating the rules, whether in terms of infrastructure development or the ambitious integration of markets. the answer to pressing questions such as improving energy efficiency, diversifying sources, moving towards renewables, making sustainable use of each country's endogenous potential, security of supply, and many other questions, requires public, democratic planning and control of the energy sector, energy production and distribution. this is the first big change we have to make.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot to be done to ensure that the energy union will bring economic benefits to households, lowering energy costs and enabling businesses to be more competitive on the global market. the potential for job creation in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors is also enormous. we must not let him go. several member states have done their homework on progress in the integration of renewable energy. some of these renewable sources are already competitive in terms of generation costs. these same member states cannot now be penalised for not having the appropriate infrastructure to interconnect with the european internal market, which imposes unnecessary costs on them. the 10% interconnection target is therefore essential, as is the binding nature of this target, especially in geographical regions where the minimum level of interconnection is decades behind schedule, such as the iberian peninsula. i would remind you that the lack of interconnections is a real obstacle to further investment in clean energy today. we are on the eve of cop 21 and europe needs to step up its commitment to decarbonising its economy. commissioner, you said that we started well in 2015, but 2016 will be the year of implementation. i hope, commissioner, that your wish will be fulfilled and i support it. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, on the eve of the paris climate summit, the energy union is moving forward and on its way. this is in itself excellent news and a reason to press on with even greater vigour. the european union and the world need a robust and credible energy union. we therefore need to move forward on all the strategic dimensions of the agenda and we need to engage european citizens in a debate that will lead to concrete actions that have a concrete impact on their lives. this involvement needs clear and transparent information. the public debate on the renewables directive has to be based on open access to all relevant information on the direct and indirect costs of the various options. the improvement in information on statistics, prices, the provision of relevant information on energy security, nuclear safety, oil reserves, energy efficiency and consumption trends is also important. we need, to lead the energy transition, political intelligence, to mobilize citizens, to mobilize businesses, to have regulatory flexibility, convergence of efforts among the 28 countries and the ability to attract investment. and here, commissioner, we are going to have to be able to mobilise the strategic investment fund, the european strategic investment fund. and the response will have to be unequivocal, swift and appropriate to the responsibilities. it is also very important to have interconnections, because without them there will be energy islands, and without a single energy market there will be no energy union.
the european union is facing a triple energy challenge. with few reserves and highly dependent on imports in this area, it seeks to ensure the security of its supplies. rising energy prices pose another challenge. finally, climate change requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. the eu imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil. if no other solutions are adopted, dependence on energy imports could reach 70% in 20 or 30 years from 53% today. however, this eu intends to solve this serious structural problem through the market, by privatising the sector, by preventing governments from intervening directly or indirectly, or even, astonishingly, by forcing the existence of a carbon market which, in practice, has never worked. we remain convinced that only public control of the key sectors of the energy sector can lead to lasting solutions.
mr president, the measures implementing the statute for members provide that the president may justify the absence of members for extended periods for reasons of health, pregnancy or maternity leave, among others. but, incomprehensibly, the statute does not provide for the possibility of temporary replacement of the member, as the member may wish and express freely. this impossibility constitutes an unjustified detriment, first of all to the member and his political force, but also to the voters, who thus find themselves deprived of representation, and to parliament itself, to its proper functioning. is it permissible, for example, that a woman who is pregnant or on maternity leave should suffer this triple loss? what example is this institution setting? we have tried to encourage this reflection here so that the necessary measures can be taken to amend the statute for members in this area.
‒ the instruments of the so-called area of freedom, security and justice, in particular as regards the schengen acquis, were initially incorporated into the union legal order by the treaty of amsterdam. gradually, many have been updated, reformulated, strengthened, and in some cases have simply become obsolete. this regulation is intended to ensure the repeal of such acts and to ensure that in certain cases a transitional period is ensured.
‒ this report takes account of the results of the evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts have been deemed obsolete, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the proposal repeals 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee, as their content was taken up in subsequent acts, and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii), which ceased to have legal effects when sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. i agree with the motion for a resolution tabled.
‒ the committee on civil liberties of the european parliament has decided to place this report under the simplified procedure rule 50 (2) of the rules of procedure. the report is part of a set of three on the repeal of acts of the schengen acquis and acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts belonging to the schengen acquis have ceased to be relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. this report is therefore of an eminently technical nature. the fact is that, in practical terms, there are no substantial improvements between the obsolete acts and those which replace them, and so, despite the above, we reaffirm our fundamental critical position on schengen and its acquis. and so it is with regard to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are areas where we have been critical of the eu approach and attempts at deeper federalism, with added limitations on the member states' decision-making capacity in areas that go to the heart of the sovereignty of the states.
‒ the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and of the existing legal instruments in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, taking into account protocol no 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties. since these are obsolete provisions - either because they are purely temporary or because their content has been changed by subsequent acts - with a view to simplifying legislation, with gains in legal certainty and security, better lawmaking means repealing these same acts. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision repealing certain acts in the field of freedom, security and justice.
‒ in accordance with the european strategy 'legislate better', which requires greater transparency of union law and whose main objective is to simplify and make european regulation more effective, all acts which become obsolete both because of their content and their temporary nature should be repealed. in this way, certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice have become obsolete - within the framework of the schengen acquis. the content of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee has been taken up in subsequent acts and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) ceased to have legal effects when the sis ii became effectively operational. in view of the various amendments, it has become necessary to change the type of decision to regulation, as the latter is binding and directly applicable to the member states, thus better suiting the purpose of the report in question. i am voting in favour of this proposal, since its adoption meets the objectives of clarity and legal certainty to be achieved in the framework of european union legislation.
‒ this commission proposal provides for the repeal of a number of acts belonging to the schengen acquis which have become obsolete, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. in this particular case, the case concerns the repeal of eleven decisions of the schengen executive committee and regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system. in view of the end of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 annexed to the treaties and in view of the objectives of simplification and reduction of the volume of legislation set out in the strategy 'better regulation', i voted in favour.
‒ it concerns only the repeal of obsolete acts (mostly related to visas, passports and exchange of information).
in writing. ‒ following examination by the commission, it has been found that there is a set of legal acts relating to the 'schengen acquis' - area of freedom, security and justice - which are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been replicated in subsequent acts. the aim of this report is therefore to repeal a number of legal measures in these areas which have been identified as obsolete. in this respect, as this is an eminently technical report and as there are questions of security and legal certainty involved, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ several acts belonging to the schengen acquis - exchange of statistical information, issuance of schengen visas, means of proof and evidence in the framework of readmission agreements, task force, difficulties in obtaining a safe-conduct, passport stamping, combating illegal immigration, combating illegal immigration, documentation consultants, liaison officers and sis ii tests - have lost their relevance due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. despite the technical nature of this document, it deals with a number of matters of a political nature on which certain positions have already been taken.
in writing. ‒ several acts belonging to the schengen acquis - exchange of statistical information, issuance of schengen visas, means of proof and evidence in the framework of readmission agreements, task force, difficulties in obtaining a safe-conduct, passport stamping, combating illegal immigration, combating illegal immigration, documentation consultants, liaison officers and sis ii tests - have lost their relevance due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. despite the technical nature of this document, it deals with a number of matters of a political nature which we have spoken out against. we do not, however, agree with the subsequent acts by continuing the policy of repression and securitization. the abstention vote is therefore taken.
‒ the instruments of the so-called area of freedom, security and justice, in particular as regards the schengen acquis, were initially incorporated into the union legal order by the treaty of amsterdam. gradually, many have been updated, reformulated, strengthened, and in some cases have simply become obsolete. this regulation is intended to ensure the repeal of such acts and to ensure that in certain cases a transitional period is ensured.
‒ this report takes account of the results of the evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts have been deemed obsolete, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the proposal provides for the repeal of the obsolete decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex (93) 14 (combating drug trafficking) and of the executive committee sch/com-ex (98) 52 (code of conduct for police cooperation), as well as the declaration of the executive committee sch/com-ex (97) 13 rev 2 (abduction of minors) and council decision 2008/173/jha of 18 february 2008 on second generation tests of the schengen information system (sis ii). it is also suggested that the decision of the executive committee sch/com-exe (99) 11 rev 2 on the cooperation agreement on road traffic offences be repealed. the reason for the repeal of this decision is that the agreement has never entered into force and no member state has made a declaration in accordance with article 20 (3) concerning the application of that agreement between the member states which have ratified it. i agree with the motion for a resolution tabled.
‒ the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs of the european parliament has decided to place this report under the simplified procedure rule 50 (2) of the rules of procedure. the report is part of a set of three on the repeal of acts of the schengen acquis and acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts belonging to the schengen acquis have ceased to be relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. this report is therefore of an eminently technical nature. the fact is that, in practical terms, there are no substantial improvements between the obsolete acts and those which replace them, and so, despite the above, we reaffirm our fundamental critical position on schengen and its acquis. and so it is with regard to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are areas where we have been critical of the eu approach and attempts at deeper federalism, with added limitations on the member states' decision-making capacity in areas that go to the heart of the sovereignty of the states.
‒ the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and of the existing legal instruments in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, taking into account protocol no 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties. since these are obsolete provisions - either because they are purely temporary or because their content has been changed by subsequent acts - with a view to simplifying legislation, with gains in legal certainty and security, better legislation means repealing these same acts. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
‒ in the area of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in the field of the schengen acquis, and in view of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, annexed to the treaties, a number of acts have been deemed obsolete. the repeal of such acts, in particular the decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex (93) 14 on drug trafficking, the executive committee sch/com-ex (98) 52 on the code of conduct for police cooperation, the declaration of the executive committee sch/com-ex (97) 13 rev. 2 on the abduction of minors and council decision 2008/173/jha of 18 february 2008 on the second generation tests of the schengen information system (sis ii), is considered essential as they were only temporary in nature or their content was taken up by subsequent legislative instruments. i agree with the proposal referred to here and with the legal act being called a 'regulation' instead of a 'decision', in so far as legislative transparency and legal certainty must be ensured by the european institutions, and the act thus has a binding character and is directly applicable to the member states.
‒ this commission proposal provides for the repeal of a number of acts belonging to the schengen acquis adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. in this particular case, the issue is the repeal of the obsolete decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex (93) 14 (combating drug trafficking) and the executive committee sch/com-ex (98) 52 (code of conduct for police cooperation), as well as the declaration of the executive committee sch/com-ex (97) 13 rev 2 (abduction of minors) and council decision 2008/173/jha of 18 february 2008 on second generation tests of the schengen information system (sis ii). in view of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 annexed to the treaties and in view of the objectives of simplification and reduction of the volume of legislation set out in the strategy 'better regulation', i voted in favour.
‒ it concerns only the repeal of obsolete acts, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because they are temporary.
‒ this report by mr claudio moraes concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council decision repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the proposal follows an assessment by the commission of the acquis on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which identified some acts that could be repealed. i have no objection to its adoption and, in view of the desirability of deleting from existing legislation acts which have become obsolete, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ several acts belonging to the schengen acquis - the fight against drug trafficking, the abduction of minors, police cooperation, road traffic offences, sis ii tests - have lost their relevance because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. despite the technical nature of this document, it deals with a number of matters of a political nature on which certain positions have already been taken. the abstention vote is therefore taken.
‒ the libe committee has decided to place this report under the simplified procedure rule 50 (2) of the rules of procedure. the report was followed by cornelia ernst, for the gue/ngl, who suggested voting in favour. several acts belonging to the schengen acquis - the fight against drug trafficking, the abduction of minors, police cooperation, road traffic offences, sis ii tests - have lost their relevance because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. despite the technical nature of this document, it deals with a number of matters of a political nature which we have spoken out against. we do not, however, agree with the subsequent acts by continuing the policy of repression and securitization. the abstention vote is therefore taken.
‒ the instruments of the so-called area of freedom, security and justice, in particular as regards the schengen acquis, were initially incorporated into the union legal order by the treaty of amsterdam. gradually, many have been updated, reformulated, strengthened, and in some cases have simply become obsolete. this regulation is intended to ensure the repeal of such acts and to ensure that in certain cases a transitional period is ensured.
‒ this report takes account of the results of the evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts have been deemed obsolete, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the proposal proposes the repeal of seven council joint actions whose content has been taken up in subsequent acts and council act 1999/c 26/07 approving the staff regulations of europol. this last council act applies to a very limited number of employment contracts and will expire shortly. there is also the proposal to repeal the convention of 17 june 1998 on driving disqualification decisions and council act 98/c 216/01 and council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence warrant for obtaining objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings (eeow). i agree with the suggested repeals.
‒ the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs of the european parliament has decided to place this report under the simplified procedure rule 50 (2) of the rules of procedure. the report is part of a set of three on the repeal of acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and on acts of the schengen acquis. several acts belonging to the schengen acquis have ceased to be relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. this report is therefore of an eminently technical nature. the fact is that, in practical terms, there are no substantial improvements between the obsolete acts and those which replace them, and so, despite the above, we reaffirm our fundamental critical position on schengen and its acquis. and so it is with regard to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are areas where we have been critical of the eu approach and attempts at deeper federalism, with added limitations on the member states' decision-making capacity in areas that go to the heart of the sovereignty of the states.
‒ the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and of the existing legal instruments in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, taking into account protocol no 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties. since these are obsolete provisions - either because they are purely temporary or because their content has been changed by subsequent acts - with a view to simplifying legislation, with gains in legal certainty and security, better legislation means repealing these same acts. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
‒ in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, certain legal acts which no longer produce their effects should be repealed, thus promoting the 'better lawmaking' strategy adopted by the european institutions. in this context, the content of certain council joint actions has been taken up by subsequent acts rendering those acts obsolete. the convention of 17 june 1998 established by council act 98/c 216/01 on driving inhibition decisions has been ratified by only seven member states and has never entered into force, so its repeal is evident. furthermore, council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence warrant has been replaced by directive 2014/41/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the european investigation order, thus taking up the matter in question and rendering the respective directive obsolete. i am voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which i consider to be a necessary legislative instrument to continue to ensure the legal clarity and certainty of legislation adopted within the european union.
‒ this commission proposal provides for the repeal of a number of acts adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete, either because their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. in this particular case, the case concerned the repeal of seven council joint actions, the content of which was taken up in subsequent actions, council act 98/c 216/01 and the convention of 17 june 1998 and framework decision 2008/978/jha. in view of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in protocol no 36 annexed to the treaties and in view of the objectives of simplification and reduction of the volume of legislation set out in the strategy 'better regulation', i voted in favour.
‒ it concerns the repeal of obsolete acts (mostly related to customs cooperation and the specification of competences).
‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in the treaties, the commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, concluding that they are obsolete, owing to their temporary nature and/or the integration of their content in subsequent acts. in the light of the commitment made in the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking, which sets out to simplify and reduce the volume of european legislation, the commission proposed the repeal of seven council joint actions whose content was taken up in subsequent acts. i am not opposed to the adoption of this report, which is of a very technical nature, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ several acts belonging to the schengen acquis - the register of counter-terrorism competences, the chemical characterisation of drugs, the register of competences in the fight against organised crime, the fight against drug addiction and drug trafficking, cooperation on public policy and security, cooperation between customs authorities, driving bans, good practice in legal aid in criminal matters, the european evidence warrant - have lost their relevance because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. despite the technical nature of this document, it deals with a number of matters of a political nature on which certain positions have already been taken. the abstention vote is therefore taken.
‒ the libe committee has decided to place this report under the simplified procedure rule 50 (2) of the rules of procedure. the report was followed by cornelia ernst, for the gue/ngl, who suggested voting in favour. several acts belonging to the schengen acquis - the register of counter-terrorism competences, the chemical characterisation of drugs, the register of competences in the fight against organised crime, the fight against drug addiction and drug trafficking, cooperation on public policy and security, cooperation between customs authorities, driving bans, good practice in judicial assistance in criminal matters, the european evidence warrant - have lost their relevance due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, although they have not been repealed, rendering them obsolete. despite the technical nature of this document, it deals with a number of matters of a political nature which we have spoken out against. we do not, however, agree with the subsequent acts by continuing the policy of repression and securitization. we abstained.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. the european union has adopted a very active policy of participation in all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo) with the aim of contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. rfmos are international organisations formed by countries with fishing interests in a given area. some manage all the stocks in a given region, others concentrate on highly migratory species such as tuna, covering vast geographical areas. the catches of spb by the eu fleet in its area of distribution are by-catches and are limited to tuna and tuna-like fisheries with longliners, mainly in the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc) convention area. the european union has been granted an annual quota of 10 tonnes of sbf for by-catches in the ccsbt area since 2006. i voted in favour.
‒ the signing of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern tuna (ccsbt) on the accession of the eu to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern tuna will allow the eu to become a member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt, a multilateral instrument for the management of fisheries resources in international waters. a management methodology with which we agree, where cooperation between the parties concerned allows the definition of common rules, which commits everyone voluntarily and responsibly. this commission is particularly important because of the importance of the exploited resource, the south pacific tuna. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern tuna (ccsbt) concerning the accession of the union to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern tuna. the eu, taking into account its commitments under the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, should continue to lead by example in the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the exchange of information is essential for the balance and conservation of the south pole.
‒ the convention for the conservation of southern tuna is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of southern tuna in all its distribution areas and has been in force since 20 may 1994. since the united nations convention on the law of the sea in 1982, the eu has pursued a very active policy of participation in all rfmos with the aim of contributing to the efficient, rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. this proposal is intended to authorise an exchange of letters between the european union and the enlarged commission of the ccsbt, of which it has been a non-cooperating member since 2006. the conclusion of this agreement will allow the eu to become a full member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt and thus to participate fully in its work. the ccsbt was only open to states, but the october 2013 amendment has allowed regional economic integration organisations, such as the eu, who wish to become members of this committee. i am in favour of concluding the agreement so that the eu becomes a full member of the ccsbt.
‒ the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna (sbf) in all its areas of distribution. the convention for the conservation of southern tuna entered into force on 20 may 1994. the european union has been a non-cooperating member of the enlarged board of the ccsbt since 2006. the non-cooperating members shall participate fully in the activities of the ccsbt but shall not have voting rights. in october 2013, the scctb amended the resolution governing the enlarged committee to allow regional economic integration organisations that wish to become members of the committee (previously only eligible for non-cooperating membership) by means of an exchange of letters in which the applicant organisation must state to the scctb its firm commitment to respect the provisions of the convention and to abide by the decisions of the scctb enlarged committee. the purpose of this proposal is precisely to allow an exchange of letters between the eu and the enlarged ccsbt committee. the signature of this international instrument will thus allow the eu to become a full member of the enlarged commission of the btwc. i voted in favour.
‒ with this accession, the eu becomes a full member of the enlarged commission of the btwc, of which it has been a non-cooperating member since 2006.
‒ this proposal for a recommendation concerns a proposal for a decision to enable the european union to participate fully in the work of the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern tuna. with the signing of this international legal instrument, which takes the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern tuna, the european union will become a full member of this enlarged commission, which is an important multilateral instrument for the management of fisheries resources in international waters. like the rapporteur, i fully support the proposal put forward and therefore vote in favour of this report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. the signature of this international legal instrument will allow the eu to become a full member of the enlarged board of the ccsbt, of which it has been a non-cooperating member since 2006. i believe that the european union's presence in international conventions relating to the exploitation of marine resources is crucial. in addition to a track record of focusing on sustainable fisheries, the european union has been promoting and supporting international cooperation processes that have led to a more responsible use of the seas. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ this agreement will allow the eu to become a member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt, a multilateral instrument for the management of fisheries resources in international waters. a management methodology with which we agree, where cooperation between the parties concerned allows the definition of common rules, which commits everyone voluntarily and responsibly. this commission is particularly important because of the importance of the exploited resource, the south pacific tuna. we voted in favour.
‒ the signing of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern tuna (ccsbt) on the accession of the eu to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern tuna will allow the eu to become a member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt, a multilateral instrument for the management of fisheries resources in international waters. a management methodology with which we agree, where cooperation between the parties concerned allows the definition of common rules, which commits everyone voluntarily and responsibly. this commission is particularly important because of the importance of the exploited resource, the south pacific tuna. we voted in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in order to ensure that the same level of protection is applied and that consumers can benefit from comparable standards, in particular in the area of disclosure of information, it is essential to promote a level playing field between distributors. another important aspect relates to the certification that insurance intermediaries and insurance undertakings advising or selling insurance-based investment products to retail investors have an appropriate level of knowledge and competence in relation to the products offered. this requirement is particularly relevant in the face of the increasing complexity and continuous innovation in the design of insurance-based investment products. purchasing an insurance-based investment product entails risk and investors should therefore be able to rely on the information and quality of the assessments provided.
‒ the key elements of the recast insurance mediation directive are to, inter alia, extend the scope of application to all distribution channels such as car rental; clarify some concepts and the powers of home and host supervisory authorities; identify, manage and mitigate conflicts of interest; increase the level of harmonisation of administrative measures and penalties; improve the adequacy and objectivity of consumer advice. although the recast aims at harmonising national provisions, coordinating rules and ensuring a level playing field for consumer protection and competition for distributors, it should be noted that this should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions to protect customers. we also welcome all improvements in consumer information, along with the guarantee of continuing training and professional development for workers. however, we believe that the directive will still not provide the desired level of transparency in the insurance sector as a whole. we also do not welcome the concern to promote an internal market for life and non-life insurance products and services, since this will only benefit the interests of the large financial companies.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal to recast the insurance mediation directive. it is a proposal for the recasting of union legislation in which parliament submits amendments to the union proposal. the new insurance mediation directive revises the legislative framework governing insurance distribution in the various member states of the european union, promoting transparency of the activity and consumer knowledge of insurance products.
‒ the application of directive 2002/92/ec has shown that several provisions will need to be clarified in order to facilitate the activity of insurance distribution and that consumer protection requires the extension of the scope of that directive to all sales of insurance products. the purpose of this proposal for a recast of directive 2002/92/ec is precisely to introduce amendments to improve the regulation of the insurance market. i voted in favour.
‒ this directive aims at minimum harmonisation in the eu, without preventing member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions to protect customers, provided they are compatible with union law.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to recast directive 2002/92/ec on insurance mediation with a view to broadening its scope, clarifying certain concepts and powers and improving the harmonisation of measures in this field, in order to ensure the protection of consumer confidence and rights and to ensure a level playing field for the various players in the market. i agree, on the whole, with the improvements proposed in the report, particularly as regards the differentiation of the sales channels for insurance products, simplification and ease of registration and the requirement of appropriate professional qualifications for the exercise of these professionals. i therefore vote in favour of this supplementary report, which aims to ensure a level playing field for all those involved in the sale of insurance products and to strengthen the protection of policyholders.
‒ although the recast aims at harmonising national provisions, coordinating rules and ensuring a level playing field for consumer protection and competition for distributors, it should be noted that this should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions to protect customers. we also welcome all improvements in the information provided to consumers, in particular ensuring continuous training and professional development of workers and standardising and improving the information provided. however, we believe that the directive will still not provide the desired level of transparency in the insurance sector as a whole. we also do not welcome the concern to promote an internal market for life and non-life insurance products and services, since this will only benefit the interests of the large financial companies.
‒ although the recast aims at harmonising national provisions, coordinating rules and ensuring a level playing field for consumer protection and competition for distributors, it is worth noting as a positive point that this should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions to protect customers. we also welcome all improvements in the information provided to consumers, in particular ensuring continuous training and professional development of workers and standardising and improving the information provided. however, we believe that the directive will still not provide the desired level of transparency in the insurance sector as a whole. we also do not welcome the concern to promote an internal market for life and non-life insurance products and services, since this will only benefit the interests of the large financial companies.
‒ all children should have the right to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and care in the family environment, as stipulated in the un convention on the rights of the child. unfortunately, the eu is still far from fully complying with the convention. a comprehensive policy framework is therefore needed to address child poverty and promote child welfare based on three pillars, namely access to adequate resources under the european social fund, access to inclusive and quality services and children's participation in society and decision-making, recognising children as rights holders. in using the financial resources of the european structural and investment funds (esif) and in defining social policies, member states should pay greater attention to ways of protecting families with children with health problems from poverty. child support policies should be strongly marked by prevention, containing long-term strategies to combat social inequalities.
‒ child poverty is a reality in the eu: 1 in 4 children lives at risk of poverty and social exclusion. according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, all children have the right to education, health care, housing, recreation, and a balanced diet. according to eurostat, in 2014, some 26 million children and young people were at risk of poverty and social exclusion, i.e. 27,7% of all children living in the eu. there are children at risk of poverty in all member states. the countries with the highest percentage of children at risk of poverty are romania (51%), bulgaria (45.2%) and hungary (41.4%). the countries with the lowest percentages are denmark (14.5%), finland (15.6%) and sweden (16.7%). malnutrition is also increasing among european children. according to unicef, in estonia, greece and italy, the percentage of children who cannot afford to eat meat or fish every other day has doubled since 2008. member states must therefore ensure that children and their families have access to education, health and social security, and it is necessary to tackle unemployment, promote job security and parental, educational and social networks, balanced nutrition and adequate housing. i voted for the report.
‒ more than a quarter of children in the eu live at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in 2013, 26.5 million children were at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion. the policies that have impoverished families are the same ones that are pushing children into poverty by denying them rights enshrined in the convention on the rights of the child, namely the rights to health, education and social protection. the report recommends that member states introduce labour laws that guarantee social rights, including an appropriate mandatory minimum wage that respects national practices and collective agreements and that provides greater security for families and combats precarious ties by promoting work with social rights. the european commission is urged to refrain from recommending reforms and cuts in the public administration of the member states, from promoting the flexibilization of labour relations and the privatization of public services, which have unequivocally led to the weakening of children's social rights. the report argues that poverty prevention policies should ensure universal and free access to public services, particularly in childcare, education, health, housing and leisure activities. it advocates universal social subsidies for children as their own and intrinsic right. this report is to be enforced.
‒ the number of children in poverty and social exclusion was already a major problem in the eu even in the years of economic growth, with high employment rates, even before the recession and austerity programmes began. already in 2007, child poverty figures reached 26.3% and in 2011 26.9%. i agree with the need to develop policies to combat child poverty, but also to provide specific social emergency support, whether in the context of raising the lowest pensions or in the context of actually creating jobs and reducing unemployment. i abstained on this report because i disagree with the way in which the rapporteur has drafted it, which has departed from the main objective of the report.
‒ the european reality points to an increase in child poverty and social exclusion, in contradiction with the provisions of the un convention on the rights of the child, which states that all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, leisure and free time, balanced nutrition and care in a family environment. europe is currently facing a serious economic crisis which is affecting families and especially children. the existing inequalities go beyond the lack of basic needs, including also access to education and health services, as well as the possibility of integrating cultural, sports and leisure activities. the definition of public policy objectives and policies that reduce child poverty should be a priority, and measures should be implemented in the context of the european union as well as in the respective member states, such as ensuring access to education. i therefore vote in favour of this report, since i consider it essential to protect children's rights by setting targets for reducing child poverty and social exclusion.
‒ according to the un convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the rights to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and care in the family environment. however, even within the eu, the convention is far from being fully complied with. indeed, the reports point to an increase in child poverty in europe. this report analyses the causes of child poverty and proposes some measures to combat it. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ according to unicef, between 2008 and 2013, an additional 1.6 million children in 30 european countries were living in severe material deprivation. child poverty is growing along with increasing social inequalities. the negative effects of poverty and social exclusion on children last a lifetime. it is in the early years of life that cognitive and socioeconomic skills are formed, which means that negative policy measures taken today will have irreversible negative impacts on these people's lives and on society. it is relative poverty that perpetuates social inequalities. it is essential that member states increase the amounts and effectiveness of social support for children and parents and promote labour legislation that guarantees social rights and security for families. the figures are clear in the portuguese case: one in four children in portugal lives in a household with material deprivation; more than half a million have lost their right to family allowance; state support for families is below the oecd average. there is no doubt that we need other policies for our country and for the union.
‒ based on the un convention on the rights of the child, every child has the right to education, health care, housing, protection, access to sports, leisure and culture, among others. however, these rights are not yet fully respected throughout the eu. the increase in child poverty is unfortunately a growing fact and as such the problems associated with it at an early age have an impact on the way future generations will develop. i therefore support the measures contained in the report concerning the need to stop children being exposed to poverty and social exclusion and the measures envisaged to minimise the consequences of this real social scourge. i also believe that identifying the root causes of child poverty and tackling them effectively and relentlessly, by promoting and ensuring education and the most basic rights of children in the eu, should be the aim of the union and, on a wider scale, the aim of all governments worldwide, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ an estimated one billion children live in conflict-affected areas; a quarter of these children are under five and are denied the right to education. these are un numbers. it is also estimated that 65 million children are affected by emergencies and protracted crises and that approximately 37 million children of primary and lower secondary school age are not in school. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. while welcoming the call for member states to contribute to increasing humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergency situations to 4% of the humanitarian aid provided for in the eu budget, we argue that these funds should be channelled towards promoting universal access to free, quality public education at all levels of education.
‒ the policies that have impoverished eu families are the same ones that have pushed children into poverty, denying them many of the rights enshrined in the convention on the rights of the child, including the rights to health, education and social protection. in this report, we therefore recommend that member states introduce labour laws that guarantee social rights, including an appropriate mandatory minimum wage that respects national practices and collective agreements and that provides greater security for families and combats precarious ties by promoting work with social rights. we therefore advocate universal social subsidies for children as their own and intrinsic right. we encourage legislation that protects or increases maternity and paternity rights, safeguards women's return to work after pregnancy and maternity leave and supports single-parent families, which are predominantly female. we voted against the parties included in the report who believe that this tragedy can be resolved through the european semester or the rules of economic and monetary union, because we believe that what causes much of the problem must be fought and cannot be part of the solution.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy aims to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion by reducing social disparities and situations of poverty and exclusion, which implies preventing segregation and promoting equal access and opportunities for all citizens, including the most marginalised communities. the effects of the economic crisis and austerity measures have reduced the availability of municipalities and entities providing treatment and support to the most marginalised groups, and may increase their exclusion when they are barred or refused participation in social and political processes essential for their social integration. i support the reintke report because i think it is important to use the union funds for the inclusion of these communities and the recommendations suggested are an opportunity to promote and support greater cohesion of the different european societies.
‒ the use of eu funds for the inclusion of marginalised communities can become a major opportunity to promote and support greater cohesion of european societies. cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has at its disposal to combat inequalities and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. in all european societies there are groups and communities facing structural exclusion and segregation from the majority of society and lacking even access to basic public infrastructure and services. however, in many cases, marginalised communities do not benefit from european cohesion policy and are not included in the decision-making structures or in the processes of project implementation and monitoring. i voted in favour.
‒ the report advocates greater use of eu cohesion funds to support marginalised communities. this support would be provided through the promotion and development of public health, education and social security services, the promotion of employability, cultural inclusion, gender equality and the participation of these communities in the definition of policies that affect them (political inclusion, participation and partnership with representative organisations). we generally support the report and its objectives, although there are some shortcomings and limitations. the big issue that the report fails to highlight is the eu budget's tightness in terms of cohesion, along with the dynamic of divergence that the capitalist nature of the integration process generates and drives. more than two decades ago, the then president of the european commission, jacques delors, said that to effectively implement the principle of cohesion, the community budget would have to be at least doubled. since then, there have been successive enlargements (to countries with levels of development below the eu average), while the budget has been shrinking. without eggs, there are no omelets. cohesion will thus be nothing more than a dead letter in the treaties. and in well-intentioned reports like this one.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities. the relevant role of cohesion policy in supporting the economic and social inclusion of marginalised communities and combating inequalities by promoting greater cohesion of european societies is underlined.
‒ the economic crisis has had a major negative impact on the territorial and social cohesion of the regions of the european union, due to public spending constraints in the member states, especially affecting marginalised communities. in response, cohesion policy plays a major role in the establishment of social equality, aiming to combat social exclusion and the most recurrent problems such as poverty, employment and health problems. accessibility to public infrastructure or lack of livability conditions may also emerge as some of the problems affecting marginalised communities, which include various groups of people such as disadvantaged neighbourhoods, people in need, people at risk of poverty, among others. there is a growing need to create actions and programmes at european level that intervene in this area, using european union funds, playing a key role in cohesion policy. i am in favour of the recommendations in this report, as it benefits marginalised communities by improving their living conditions, by tackling social inequalities and by promoting european social cohesion.
‒ cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has at its disposal to combat inequalities and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. in all european societies, there are groups and communities facing structural exclusion and segregation from the majority of society and lacking even access to basic public infrastructure and services. while the primary responsibility for changing the situation of marginalised communities lies with the member states, the objective of social cohesion requires european intervention in policies to include marginalised communities. indeed, cohesion policy can play an important role in changing the situation, not only by overcoming challenges in housing or access to public infrastructure, as is already the case under the erdf, but also by taking an integrated approach to tackling all forms of discrimination faced by marginalised communities. the point is that the necessary adjustments are made and monitoring and qualitative evaluation mechanisms are introduced so that interventions can achieve sustainable and long-term results. i voted in favour.
‒ strong cuts in public spending during the crisis have led to a worsening of existing problems in the member states, such as unemployment, lack of social security, difficult housing situation and lack of public health services. the crisis has had a direct negative impact on members of marginalized communities. many municipalities continue to face serious budgetary constraints that prevent them from adequately addressing social marginalisation. cohesion policy can play an essential role in changing this situation, not only by overcoming challenges in housing or access to public infrastructure, but also by taking an integrated approach to tackling all forms of discrimination faced by marginalised communities.
‒ cohesion policy has played a very important role for the regions of the european union in recent decades, in particular in strengthening the instruments at its disposal to combat asymmetries and in supporting the territorial, economic and social cohesion of its regions. however, many groups and communities are still subject to social exclusion resulting from the denial of access to basic infrastructure and services such as housing, education, employment, social security or health services. this reality is the result of a complex set of circumstances which have accentuated existing social and economic problems, particularly in the most disadvantaged and socially deprived communities (and unfortunately prevalent in many european regions). in view of these facts, this report argues that cohesion policy should therefore also provide for measures to include these marginalised communities. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe that concrete measures at european level are needed to meet this need.
in writing. ‒ the focus of this report is on a greater use of eu cohesion funds to support marginalised communities. this support would be provided through the promotion and development of public health, education and social security services, the promotion of employability, cultural inclusion, gender equality and the participation of these communities in the definition of policies that affect them (political inclusion, participation and partnership with representative organisations). it is noted that the report shows a tendency to seek a broad definition (in the eu context) of the concept of marginalised community, which presupposes a standardisation. the report also focuses on the use of the structural funds and is in line with eu objectives. these references to federalisation and the application of the 'one size fits all' recipe are not, however, comprehensive in the report.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on a greater use of eu cohesion funds to support marginalised communities. this support would be provided through the promotion and development of public health, education and social security services, the promotion of employability, cultural inclusion, gender equality and the participation of these communities in the formulation of policies that affect them. we voted yes.
‒ the united nations system is the world's leading forum for global governance and a stage par excellence for promoting the values and interests of the european union and its member states. the new challenges and problems of the union are inextricably linked to the wishes and system of the un, insofar as they lack global answers, and global problems also lack european answers. the eu's security instability (conflicts in ukraine, syria, the expansion of is), development and humanitarian aid problems, environmental and climate change challenges cannot be solved by themselves without a global response, with the support of the international community, under the auspices of the un. however, the eu's place as a major international actor is not properly recognised in the un system of governance and it should be sought to strengthen and increase its own influence and that of its member states. reforms in the rationalization of its structures, working methods, budget and even the power of its security council must be carried out, and its blockage in situations of genocide and crimes against humanity is regrettable. to stress the importance of increased cooperation between the eu and un humanitarian agencies.
‒ the european union's vision is linked to peace, security, development and human rights on a global scale, and the challenges it faces lack global responses which, in turn, lack european action. the eu promotes an international system based on enhanced multilateral cooperation and good global governance and is committed to genuine multilateralism, with the united nations at its core. this commitment is based on the conviction that, in order to respond effectively to global crises, challenges and threats, the international community needs an effective multilateral system, based on universal rights and values. to better achieve its foreign policy objectives, the eu must aim to strengthen global governance within the un system and to increase its own and its member states' influence within the un system. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is unacceptable, both in its content and in its objectives. only a very biased reading of the un charter can lead one to believe that the european union shares its values and principles, as this report does. what, then, of direct participation in military aggressions against sovereign countries, violating their independence and territorial integrity, as has happened in the cases of iraq, libya or syria, among others? this report carries an unacceptable view of how the eu should act within the un and, in particular, within its general assembly - a body of which the eu should not even be a part, given the nature of both the body and the eu itself. we cannot accept the proposal that the eu should be a member of the security council, nor that changes should be made in the un institutional framework in general to align it with the eu's (i.e. the powers that command it) interests in foreign policy. the attempt to force the submission of sovereign states to the eu's pre-determined positions in the un discussions is unacceptable. this report is an example of the most unbridled federalist impulses within the eu. we obviously voted against it.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the importance and role of the eu in the united nations. sharing values, principles, objectives, the eu and the un share challenges that cannot be met without a global response. it sets out ways for the eu to achieve its foreign policy objectives in the un framework, whether in terms of visibility, in terms of enhancing political weight, or through more effective coordination with un agencies.
‒ the principles and objectives of the european union in the field of foreign policy are enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on european union and have a close link with the principles and objectives of the united nations. it is important to ensure that the future of the european union is linked to peace, security, development and human rights on a global scale, and europe should actively contribute to building global responses. i am voting in favour of this report in order to achieve better the strengthening of global governance within the un system and the increase of its own and its member states' influence within the same system. i also believe that the eu should play a more significant role in the general assembly and that the security council will need to be reformed in order to better reflect the new world reality and to respond more effectively to current and future security challenges.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in this respect, the eu needs global partners to achieve its foreign policy objectives, notably on peace and security, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts, state collapse and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the united nations system is the world's main forum for improving global governance and as such represents the best forum for promoting the values and interests of the eu. this framework requires that, in order to achieve its objectives as enshrined in the treaty, the eu should aim to strengthen global governance within the un system and to increase its own and its member states' influence. the position adopted in this report reaffirms the importance of revitalizing the work of the general assembly in general and the work of the eu under the auspices of the united nations in particular. in view of the above, i voted in favour.
‒ as a major global actor, the eu has a highly relevant role to play within multilateral organisations and should therefore contribute to ensuring peace, security, development and the respect of human rights worldwide. the eu's problems lack global answers just as much as global problems lack concrete european action. the eu and the un have been working together to address key issues that not only secure the present but also protect future generations. examples include the strengthening of work in developing countries and of various international companies that also contribute in this respect, the fight against violence, gender equality, the fight against corruption, climate change and the proper management of refugee flows. however, i also agree with the rapporteur's view that the general assembly must be revitalised and the un security council reformed. i therefore consider it essential to maintain and strengthen dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the un so that the objectives set by the union in terms of foreign policy can be achieved and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ this report is based on a principle which is, to say the least, dubious, namely that the european union shares the values and principles of the united nations charter. but what about the military aggressions actively promoted and carried out against sovereign countries, violating their independence and territorial integrity, as happened in the cases of iraq, libya or syria, among others? the report does not, however, address key issues where the eu could play a relevant role in the united nations. let us take two examples. first, the discussion on the establishment of a multilateral framework for the renegotiation of sovereign debts, a matter of the utmost importance for several eu member states. what does the eu do? boycott the discussion and its outcome. secondly, the resolution on the right to water and sanitation, which is regarded as a human right. what does the eu do? it boycotts the resolution and persists on the path of water privatisation, which is being pursued in several countries, in some cases as a result of eu impositions.
‒ the eu's imperialist bent and aspirations to play a dominant role in the world political context are clearly evident in this report. in a most abject way, the eu's principles and values are being collated with those of the united nations. the pursuit of peace is proclaimed, ignoring the aggressive and warmongering character that the eu and many of its member states have assumed, promoting war in countries such as iraq, libya, syria or afghanistan. the contribution to poverty eradication and the promotion of democracy is proclaimed, when we know well that the support is often consecrated in a framework of imperative alignment, that is, imposition, with the political strategies and 'democratic' values of the eu. it is unashamedly proposed that the eu should have a greater preponderance as a body within the united nations, its influence and role in global governance within the un system, in particular in the general assembly, and take its place in the security council, which we reject. the document sets out, in essence, a strategy to take the united nations by storm and to make this organisation an instrument of the eu's foreign policy. we voted against it.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to tell you now that you would only have to pay 5% income tax this year, none of you would believe it, even though we are so close to christmas. well, that is the reality of most of the large multinational companies operating in europe, which pay effective taxes of 5%, sometimes even less, even in countries where the nominal tax rate is 30% and above. this situation has very serious consequences. the first is that the tax burden that fuels our collective expenditure on health, education, unemployment support, infrastructure, falls almost exclusively on two types of taxpayers: small and mediumsized enterprises and individuals, that is, the ordinary citizen. the second consequence is that in a period when so many exceptional sacrifices are being asked of the populations, which include giving up public services and social benefits, including some that have been solemnly contracted with the state, such as pensions, while the tax burden is rising to impossible levels, this situation is totally unfair. an injustice that becomes unbearable. how do you explain this? strangely enough, although the rules of the internal market and the single currency have evolved to create a level playing field throughout europe, the european union has always maintained the key principle in direct taxation that any member state can oppose this and any development in this area can be immediately blocked. this situation would perhaps have been tolerated at the time of the founding of the european union, when the three big countries, france, germany and italy, turned a blind eye to more or less open tax competition on the part of the three small benelux countries. but today, with the european union extended to 28 countries, and when the movement of capital is more important than the movement of goods, the distortion of competition in the internal market, coupled with this principle of unanimity, forces us to make a very serious reassessment of how we work together. one year after the lux leaks scandal, the european parliament is now producing its first major report on direct taxation in europe. this report must be a factor capable of triggering the structural change that is needed. we have all worked hard and seriously, we have listened to hundreds of people, and we hope that our conclusions will enable this parliament to take a strong and solid stand against the council and the commission in defence of the interests of the citizens, who are also taxpayers. our proposals, it should be noted, are not about tax harmonization in the union, but about ensuring that direct taxes on company profits are calculated according to common methods, that multinational companies publicly report essential information in each of the countries in which they operate, that tax administrations, and in particular the european commission, will have access to the terms of advance tax agreements between administrations and large companies, that there is a much greater transparency regime at european level on how these matters are handled at member state level, particularly in the framework of the code of conduct. we also need to move towards a european definition of tax havens, with zero tolerance for them, and to create clear rules to protect whistleblowers. it is also necessary to manage the conflicts of interest of those who give tax advice to multinationals and at the same time advise the states and the european institutions. i would like to leave one last note, and i'll finish right away, madam president, and this note is that this work is not finished. we have to keep working and getting the information we haven't gotten so far, but that doesn't mean we have to keep going backwards. we must move quickly, as soon as this week, with a continuation of our work, with a clear mandate to achieve what we have not achieved so far, but to move forward in monitoring the commission and the council in implementing what we are now going to recommend.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure for me to be here today to present the final report of the taxe committee. it is a good report and i want to give credit to the two rapporteurs, mrs ferreira and mr theurer, and to all the participants in this committee. i want to take the time to congratulate them on their work. we both want to make taxation more transparent, fairer and more efficient. this is a priority for the european commission. our citizens expect it. it is one of the main lines of my action. i already wanted to move forward fast and strong in 2015 and i want to keep this momentum going in 2016 with the support of the european parliament. you know the two fundamental principles that guide my action and which are rooted in the most basic sense of justice. first, taxes must be collected where the profits are made. this is known as the principle of effective taxation. secondly, everyone, including multinational firms, must pay their fair share. this is an ambition which, i know, is shared by the committee on taxation, which supplies the report and explains why, in fact, on many points our views converge. i shall now return to some of them, but i shall also return to the quality of our cooperation with the committee on taxation. i noted what mr theurer said at the end of his speech: the need for information. we have tried to find pragmatic arrangements to allow the various groups access to as many documents as possible. there is still progress to be made. you know the limits that exist. they do not come from the commission. i mean that very strongly. this year, the commission presented two major initiatives to change the corporate tax regime in europe: the tax transparency package - this was last march - and the action plan on corporate taxation in june. these are two initiatives that lay the foundations for a substantial reform of the corporate tax framework, covering a very wide spectrum, from transfer pricing to preferential regimes, to advance tax agreements, tax havens, dispute resolution and code of conduct reform. several of these initiatives are the subject of specific recommendations by your committee. i want to quickly go back to the main ones. first, we heard the message from the european parliament on country-by-country reporting. i had the opportunity to say this at one of my hearings, because i have had two in front of you, that the commission is keeping up with this initiative. we will complete our impact study in the first half of 2016, accompanied by an initiative, which we will calibrate. you know my personal preferences, but we must also take into account, in defining the target audience, the need to preserve the investment. that is where the commission will set its sights. it is in the commission's work programme for next year, which gives you a measure of our commitment. i'm sure my staff is very good at this. as regards the proposed common consolidated corporate tax base accis , the commission wants to revive this dossier, which has been stuck in the council for too long. this will was clearly stated, again, in the commission's 2016 work programme. we are withdrawing the current proposal, not because it is bad, but because it is blocked. we will replace it with proposals for a two-stage approach, starting with an agreement on a mandatory tax base. this will improve the single market for businesses while closing the gaps and ensuring that each business pays its fair share of tax. this is the key element in the overhaul of corporate taxation so that it is finally in line with the european dimension. i would like to say, however, that i am not giving up on consolidation. i know that is what is expected, but it seems to me that the way to convince those who are reluctant is to proceed first to the creation of a common platform and, i regret, to move towards consolidation. i am glad to see that we have agreed on these key instruments in the fight against tax evasion and the establishment of a fair taxation system in the european union. as far as the work of the oecd is concerned, the commission is in full agreement with your recommendation. now that the g20 meeting in antalya a few days ago has approved the final measures for the beps project, this must become the de facto rule of the european union. it must be implemented in a manner compatible with the treaties. a patchwork of national approaches would fragment our single market, hinder the freedoms guaranteed by the treaty, and weaken member states' efforts to combat tax evasion. therefore, a coordinated approach to beps is essential and the union has already taken the lead in this regard. for example, the commission's proposal to increase transparency on the advance decision process in tax matters was adopted in record time, only seven months after it was proposed, and i had the opportunity to come and defend this proposal for a directive. i would like to congratulate the european parliament on the very high quality of its work. i would have liked, as you would, ladies and gentlemen, to go a little further, but i think that the compromise we have reached is, let us say, of a high quality. we must do so more quickly if we are to protect the tax bases of all member states and safeguard our common competitiveness. we must also ensure that our own instruments are consistent. parliament asks us, and i quote, 'to deal in depth with the problems of corporate taxation, including harmful practices and their impact in the case of the european semester'. the commission is of course prepared to continue to use all the instruments at its disposal to combat tax evasion, including in the framework of the european semester. i therefore answer in the affirmative. where rules and practices that make tax systems vulnerable to aggressive tax optimisation are already being examined, they need to be examined more. as regards the external dimension of tax evasion, the commission fully shares the view of the taxe committee that the union must raise its playing field. we published a pan-european list of third countries identified for tax purposes last june. it was the first time. this is an important step towards a more coherent approach towards these countries in terms of good tax governance. i'm aware of the criticisms that may have come here or there. it was a potpourri or a best of. we must now move towards a much more coherent and common strategy. we must have a real external tax strategy, based on a common mechanism within the european union, to deal with external threats to the tax bases of the member states. on this point, again, our views converge. the commission also shares the european parliament's expectations regarding the fight against the misuse of legal structures such as companies and trusts. we will therefore pay particular attention to the implementation by the member states of their obligations under the fourth anti-money laundering directive. as regards tax advice, i would like to stress that new rules, which are already being implemented in the european union and which apply to the auditing of the accounts of certain entities, will make it possible, in particular, to regulate the joint provision of audit services and tax advice in order to limit, as you wish, the risks of conflict of interest. they shall apply from june 2016. finally, a word on the control of state aid in the tax field. the commission thanks the european parliament for its support on this obviously important subject. the control of aid is an important instrument in combating the unlawful advantages granted to undertakings by member states and contributes to strengthening the fiscal equity of our union. as my colleague, margrethe vestager, has said, with whom i work under the best conditions, each in his own field and of course respecting the other's competences, legislation on the one hand, implementation on the other, she is pursuing the investigations on behalf of the commission, in particular through the procedures at her disposal. it is making progress in its analysis of the information received from all the member states on the report on tax returns and you know that it has been forced to take quite courageous measures with the college, which i fully support, as do you. ladies and gentlemen, when i was appointed, with this house, as commissioner for taxation just over a year ago, i promised to make fair and efficient corporate taxation a major priority. the pace and scope of the commission's initiatives on corporate tax reform presented this year are proof, beyond my personal commitment, of the commission's commitment to go faster, stronger, further than any commission has done so far. but 2015 is coming to an end, and my work in this area has barely begun. of course, it will continue at the same pace and with the same ambition in 2016 and beyond. i want to say that i share the conviction of the commission and its president that the european parliament has a crucial role to play. that role is that of deliberation. it is also, let us say, to maintain political pressure because you and i both know what the rule is in tax matters. it is constraining, difficult and even limiting. it's the unanimous rule, twenty-eight. it is therefore also necessary to be able to turn to the member states. i do it, you do it, we do it together. i am sure that our institutions will continue to work hand in hand to advance these joint initiatives and i think that this report and the work of your contribution are a very important contribution to this.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mrs hübner, the question i wanted to ask you is whether your group, the epp, is prepared to support the return of mr juncker, president of the european commission, and the president of the eurogroup to this committee, in view of the need to clarify much better and in a much clearer way their involvement in all these proceedings, particularly in relation to this genuine scandal of the so-called patent box.
madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and the chairman of the taxe committee for the work they have done, despite the shortness of their term. but i would like to say that we have only reached the end of the first stage and that everything, or almost everything, is still to be done. tax havens, tax evasion, tax avoidance and corporate favors take billions of euros out of the public accounts, out of health and education in every country where corporations operate, make their profits but do not pay their taxes. it is true that for the multinationals it is christmas every day, but it is not christmas every day for the workers and for the small and mediumsized enterprises, which see their taxes rise every day to cover this fraud. in 2011, portugal's foreign direct investment abroad increased by 134% compared to the previous year, with the netherlands as the main destination. the reason was the transfer of tax residency of 19 of the 20 companies listed on the lisbon stock exchange in portugal to one of the european tax havens that granted it a secret tax agreement. special agreements are unfortunately the rule in 23 of the 28 countries of the union. the european commission, which has put forward transparency as its main banner, cannot be satisfied with what has been achieved. we need and want all the information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used to create a false impression that the member states are not responsible for the fraud. there is a lot of work to be done and no one should be exempt from responsibility - i am finished, madam president - not even mr president of the commission, mr jean-claude juncker. responsibility when it's born is for everyone.
madam president, tax fraud and tax evasion is a widespread practice in virtually all european countries and has been known to all governments in the european union for decades. these practices aimed at controlling national tax authorities in order to divert profits to non-taxed territories or tax havens are closely linked to the current process of european integration, which has the free movement of capital as one of its main pillars and globalisation as its main consequence. if it were not for the disclosure of successive tax scandals at a time when the people of europe are suffering the effects of austerity, we would probably still be living with these crimes with total impunity. it was therefore the indignation of public opinion that was the real engine that propelled this whole well-intentioned plan. the report under discussion today is incomplete. we have fought these months against the various obstacles. we still have no access to documents of great importance for a proper assessment and ascertainment of the facts. every day new elements emerge which implicate senior european officials and which require an extension of the mandate of the taxe committee. as this report is incomplete, we abstained, in the belief that the work will continue, confronting the european institutions with their responsibilities and also with their action plan announced in june, which has made little or no progress.
mr president, the ferreira-theurer report is the result of the crucial research carried out by the taxe committee to lift the veil of opacity in which multinationals operate in the european union and the world, paying less and less tax, while burdening citizens and smes, and the captured governments claim that there is no money for the welfare state, nor to invest in the economy and job creation. the figures for portugal are disconcerting, not only for the portuguese governments but also for the institutions which have joined the troika. now, our governments continue to go after whistleblowers, who should be protected, and continue to limit the transparency of tax treaties and exemptions, benefits and other immoral and unfair tax practices to maintain the tax dumping they've embarked on. this parliament should not accept in co-decision an agreement which does not oblige companies to publish their country-by-country accounts, as banks already do, without prejudice. the taxe committee must continue to investigate, for the sake of transparency, scrutiny of the tax policy of multinationals and an end to the scandalous complicity of european governments against the interests of the citizens and the union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to thank a number of people and a number of bodies: firstly, the chairman of the special committee on taxation, mr lamassoure, who has always been able to use great diplomacy, great elegance, but has never lost his way; i would like to thank my colleague michael theurer for the fact that we have been able to come together in the diagnosis of the problems and also in the solutions. i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the taxe committee; and i would also like to thank in particular all those who have come here to give their testimony on tax competition in european matters, especially journalists, whistleblowers who have taken very particular risks and the international consortium of journalists who launched luxleaks, without whom we probably would not have had all this activity and all this debate; and finally, to our personal secretariats and the secretariat of the tax committee, who have been unwavering in their support of the members of this parliament. the commission can count on a parliament which is very demanding, but also capable of supporting it in this fight which concerns us all. and i would conclude by saying that parliament is obviously not satisfied with the absence of elements on which we will probably, i hope, take decisions this week: to continue to know more, to investigate more, not just to know, but to have this information so that we avoid the blocks which in the past have impeded progress being maintained in the future in relation to the agenda which we will adopt tomorrow, i hope, by a large majority. thank you all very much, but i think we are indeed making european history.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to greet the commissioner, the president of the council, mr pierre gramegna, and all my colleagues. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, i would like to thank mr deprez for the excellent work he has done and also mr geier, who is the permanent rapporteur for the agencies, and congratulate him on the work and the results achieved, as well as my colleague mrs eider gardiazabal. we are a team, accompanied by all the shadow rapporteurs, whom i also want to greet. i would also like to congratulate all the female advisers, all the political advisers, all the political groups, all those who took part in this negotiation, the secretariat and, of course, in a very special way, the presidency of the council, and to say that they have done a competent job. i think there has been no unanimity in the council on the budget for many years and i would therefore like to congratulate the presidency of the council and the vice-president of the commission, commissioner georgieva. i think we 're all in for a happy birthday . we have an agreement which is positive, which meets the aspirations, which meets the challenges, which is in line with the priorities we have set and the priorities of parliament. we've pushed this deal to the limit. we have used the flexibility instrument, eur 1 530 million over the margins, in full and have used up the margin for heading 1a, heading 1b, heading 3 and heading 4; finally, we have exhausted the margins for growth, for employment, for social and territorial cohesion and also for internal and external solidarity to help resolve the refugee crisis. if we look at the first draft budget, we have increased the commitment appropriations by eur 2 800 million, reducing the council's cuts. we have also succeeded in making payments of 2 151 million in appropriations, if we look at the draft budget before letter of amendment no 1. we can say that this is the budget for employment and the budget for solidarity. in addition, it is worth noting that we have succeeded in making the youth employment initiative a priority for the institutions and that it will continue after an evaluation to be carried out in 2016. we have increased the amount of the crisis affecting farmers by 500 million euro, also to deal with this problem. and on employment, we have not forgotten to strengthen horizon 2020 for innovation and research, cosme for small and mediumsized enterprises and erasmus+ for youth. on migration and refugees, the external dimension is very much present: we are mobilizing all the instruments we can to solve this problem internally, but also to act at the source, and this package, which includes the agencies, the cooperation and development instruments, i am sure will also bring more security to the european union and help refugees.
madam president, in the context of a major budgetary constraint on national contributions to the union budget, there are some concerns. first of all, we draw attention to the cut of eur 11 million, which will directly affect the budget lines devoted to the protection, detection and control of plant and animal pests. this cut, in a context where climate change is leading to the emergence of several epidemic crises, leaves us, to say the least, apprehensive. there is talk of a significant increase in programmes dedicated to youth employment, but we have to realise that the erasmus+ programme represents a minimal portion of the budget and that therefore this 30% increase is unlikely to have a big impact. we also note that the european parliament is committed to cutting some 179 jobs by 2019, 60 already next year. finally, a final word on the increase in funding for immigration: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, commissioner, this report could not be more relevant after the horrific terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november. it is the result of intensive collective work, in cooperation with the author, rachida dati, whom i salute. thousands of young europeans have left for syria and iraq to fight in the ranks of daesh, which is neither a state nor an islamic state. but it is not, as some people wish to tell us, that closing borders or a directive on the pnr will stop their radicalisation and recruitment. the fight is also political and ideological, and it is waged right here in europe, within our societies, because the attackers in paris in january, as in november, were europeans, french and belgians. and so it is essential that we return to tackling the inequalities, discrimination and social exclusion felt particularly acutely by migrant communities in neighbourhoods that we have allowed to become ghettos of despair and resentment, with 60% unemployment, like molenbeek in the heart of europe, brussels today besieged by fear. our collective security requires an end to the destructive policy of blind austerity, which also explains why instead of having human resources and other reinforced means, police, intelligence services and magistrates are struggling with incapacities, and explains why prisons have become centres of radicalization instead of rehabilitation for criminals. we need unity in the fight against the transnational terrorist threat. we need political union, where our states share security information and police and judicial cooperation, and make joint planning and joint security risk assessment. we need a common foreign policy, european security and a common security and defence policy, as syria, iraq and libya have shown. the member states of the european union must coordinate and tackle arms trafficking, terrorist financing and organised crime, associated with the capacity of organisations such as daesh and al-qaeda, and cannot continue to operate in a business as usual way vis-à-vis governments and states where daesh and al-qaeda have found financiers and facilitators. international trade, including arms and oil, cannot be worth our silence. the lesson to be drawn from the paris attacks is that our governments must coordinate to stop the terrorist threat and understand that this requires a coherent european strategy. and that it will not be at the expense of fundamental rights and freedoms that we will defeat terrorism. without rights, we will never have security. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover all the member states, and to extend it to cover all the member states, and to extend it to cover all the member states. and that is our moral strength not to bow to the terrorists and not to play into their hands, who want to destroy freedoms and democracy. (the speaker accepts to answer a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer.– no, we do not oppose pnr. we voted for pnr. but pnr is only a tool and not the ‘magic bullet’ that will solve the problem. yes – and also in reply to mrs dati – we are in favour of border controls, but we are not in favour of the abuse of controls to allow racial profiling and ethnic profiling in order to prevent migrants and refugees from coming into europe. i recall that, when we had borders, more than a million of the citizens of my country, portugal, crossed those borders illegally to work in france.
mr president, there are a number of positive aspects to this report. for example, it refers to the harmful effects on health and safety at work of precarious employment or that precarious employment excludes workers from access to training and occupational health and safety services, and is also associated with mental stress. all this would be even more positive if the european union always acted consistently and in accordance with the principles set out in the strategy. for example, it was important to understand what kind of work the european union funds under the youth guarantee programme, when it is now known that a large proportion of jobs covered by this type of programme are forms of labour exploitation of young people. for example, it would be important to see whether the european union does not finance companies that violate these rights, particularly in the field of safety and health at work, with structural and cohesion funds. because we hear every day of many companies that do that and have already received funding.
mr president, in order for this strategic framework to have the desired effect, we need to achieve five objectives. more social dialogue is a key element for the development, adaptation and implementation of occupational health and safety policies, both at national and european union level, because only a genuine commitment between all the parties involved will guarantee success in local implementation. more tools to support businesses. certain sectors have specific needs and we cannot ignore the particular case of smes. in this regard, it is urgent to develop practical instruments and guidelines to support, facilitate and improve compliance by them and their workers with occupational health and safety requirements. increased effort and coordination at the level of the european union and its member states. the european commission should set up a database of national health and safety organisations to facilitate access to national plans, encourage the sharing of good practice and help fill policy gaps in this area. increased capacity to adapt to new occupational safety and health challenges. new emerging risks in the workplace, such as psychosocial risks and burnout, among others, require a rapid and appropriate response. finally, greater awareness among workers and employers of the benefits of implementing these measures. for example, reducing error, motivation, greater individual and collective well-being, contributing to increased worker productivity and reduced risk for companies.
mr president, there is no better preventive measure to prevent gender discrimination in pensions than to close the gender pay gap. and to do this, collective bargaining must be respected, and wages must not be negotiated individually. it is necessary that women workers should not be afraid to report discrimination and therefore be protected by the law. it is necessary to provide the labour inspection authorities with adequate means. sanctions must be applied to companies that do not comply with the law. the rights of mothers must be defended so that women are not penalised for having been mothers during their working lives. these are some of the measures, but their implementation, together with the defence of public, supportive and universal social security systems, will safeguard a dignified ageing for women.
mr president, the paris attacks were not just an attack on france. they were an attack on all of europe. it was the values of the western democracies, which france embodies, that were hit, and people from many countries, including portugal, were murdered. we are at war, a hidden, cowardly war, without the classic rules, but no less lethal. terrorism is not fought with romantic proclamations. it's not enough to say we won't give in to fear. we need to act. we must fight to eliminate extremism that attacks our values, our way of life, our very existence. we can't feel like we're being held hostage in our own home. the first solidarity of the european leaders, without forgetting the others, must be with our peoples, whom we cannot put at risk by our decisions. everything must be considered: r&amp;d, smart borders, detection and elimination of funding sources, monitoring of social networks and other modern forms of communication, use of all military forces, closure of indoctrination sites in europe, reassessment of conditions of assignment and loss of nationality, if necessary, and of course... we have just said, mr president, that europe is old, but it does not have to be weak. europe must face medieval madness and win. we will win.
jihadist terrorism has a precise target: liberal-democratic institutionalism that favours the affirmation of critical thinking. the attacks in paris a few days ago show that this is the case. the terrorists know that fear is a silent poison that can dissolve the foundations of this model of political and social organization: they want to inoculate it through these horrible acts. the european union, which has among its aims the protection and promotion of human rights, must react with vigour and intelligence to this threat: the european union must work towards improving its repressive response capacity, both internally and externally. this will mean increased cooperation between member states in the fields of security and defence policies, which will also mean increased sharing of sovereignty.
in writing. we live in fear today, as if our safety has been called into question. and it was. and our values are under attack. and they were. we must therefore act. but freedom and security are not opposite concepts. strictly speaking, there is no freedom without security, and no security without freedom. when we are in emergency situations, exceptional measures are necessary, but only for the period strictly necessary to neutralize the threat. in the long term we must look for the necessary and proportionate measures to combat the threat. on a sensitive issue such as the fight against terrorism, a united front is called for. the extremes are already trying to polarize the discussion. it is therefore up to the moderates not to take the easy way out and to fight these criminals effectively while preserving our essential values, such as fundamental rights or the schengen area. in january of this year i said that we need new instruments or the strengthening of existing ones if their future is the same as that of those we have approved so far: little or no use? in the heat of the moment, it's up to the decision-makers to act with balance and not forget the reason why they're attacking us: we are free. to compromise our core values would be to grant a victory to the terrorists.
in writing. the paris attacks show that we need more europe to keep our citizens safe: less europe has facilitated the terrorist killing spree. it is up to governments to take the political lead in establishing european coordination of intelligence services, police and judicial cooperation, which need to be strengthened in means and capacity and not be further reduced by the disastrous austerity policies which also feed the ghettos from which the terrorists have sprung. we need to work for peace and security in the neighborhood - it's the conflicts that get us in the door! we need a common security and defence policy within the framework of a coherent common foreign and security policy. and we need consistency: to say that we are at war is to give the terrorists political status, to play into their hands. we must attack the sources of terrorist financing: arms trafficking, oil, money laundering, by holding all financiers and facilitators accountable, many of them playing a double game, such as saudi arabia, qatar and turkey. finally, mr weber's accusation that the socialists tried to introduce amendments to the pnr in the dati report yesterday is false. it's a dirty coup against the convergence we need to fight terrorism.
the recent terrorist attacks in france demonstrate the urgent need to build an international force capable of fighting and defeating the self-proclaimed islamic state. for the first time in the history of the lisbon treaty, france has invoked article 42 (7), which provides for a solidarity clause in the event of aggression against an eu country. it is an article which has never been used before in the history of our union. i understand that in addition to attacking strategic targets, countries have to stop funding the islamic state, stop acquiring oil resources from isis and try to build a real economic blockade so that they have no resources to finance their activities. the european union must take a leading role on the international political stage, building the necessary bridges with the us and russia to defeat isis, as well as improving the education of our young people in schools, preventing the radicalisation of young people and improving control and surveillance systems at the eu's borders.
‒ as a result of the adjustment of a set of indicators, this draft amending budget revises downwards the contributions for the financial year 2015. in total, around eur 9.4 billion will be reimbursed to member states and thus withdrawn from the union budget. at a time when the union is facing a refugee crisis which requires a strong mobilisation of funds, particularly by the union, i find it regrettable that it has not been possible to reach an agreement in the negotiations with the council. instead of using these to meet commitments under the migration agenda outside the community budget (such as the trust funds for syria and africa or the united nations world food programme), member states decided to receive the money and leave a decision for later.
in writing. ‒ member states have committed eur 2.3 billion to the trust fund for africa and the trust fund for syria. these commitments are not being met. this corrective draft translates into a reduction in national contributions of eur 9.4 billion, of which eur 2.3 billion correspond to fines and a surplus over the revenue from customs duties. these revenues are from the eu budget. the member states were to hand over the surplus of eur 2.3 billion for commitments they had made in respect of the trust funds, which was coincidentally the same amount. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this draft budgetary correction no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the estimate of traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the missing vat and gni (gross national income) balances for 2014 and the vat and gni balances for 2015. this results in a decrease of eur 9.4 billion in member states' contributions to the eu budget, based on their gni. the draft amending budget also aims to update the forecast for other revenue sources. it also provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in both the commitment and payment appropriations of the european data protection supervisor. we have argued that if such arrangements are made, the money should not be returned to the member states - which is mainly to the benefit of the wealthier countries - but should remain in the eu budget, reinforcing the (small) cohesion funds. in this case, parliament proposed that the money be allocated to trust funds for africa and syria, as well as to refugee support agencies. the european commission and the council have not accepted it, and this report regrets that. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet adopted the euro.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution approving the council's position on draft amending budget no 8/2015.
in the light of the above, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i regret that the financial commitments made by member states for the trust fund for africa, the trust fund for syria and the un agencies providing support to refugees have not yet been implemented, resulting in a backlog of eur 2,3 billion at the beginning of november 2015, according to commission figures. it is essential that member states honour the commitments they have previously made. i advocate additional financial support to provide humanitarian assistance along the transit routes and to manage the challenges posed by the reception of unprecedented numbers of refugees in europe's cities and regions.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the means in view of the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to present draft amending budget no 8 to the general budget for 2015, which concerns a revision of the estimate of traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the 2014 vat and gni balance sheets missing, the 2015 vat and gni balance sheets missing and an update of the estimate for other revenue. the overall revenue impact is a €9.4 billion reduction in member states' contributions to the european financial cake. there is also a reduction of eur 123 474 in both the commitment and payment appropriations of the european data protection supervisor. in this case, where there is a need for budgetary adjustments, i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for more financial resources to deal with the current refugee crisis and the urgency of allocating the €2.3 million in transfers of funds for this crisis which are overdue. to regret the lack of commitment in conciliation. however, member states are expected to be able to honour the commitments they have made.
in writing. ‒ draft budgetary correction no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the estimate of traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the missing vat and gni balances for 2014 and the vat and gni balances for 2015, resulting in a decrease of eur 9,4 billion from member states' contributions based on their gni. it also intends to update the forecast for other revenue sources. in addition, this draft amendment provides for a reduction of eur 123 474. we abstained.
in writing. ‒ as i have argued from the outset, the european response to the refugee crisis has - essentially - had two levels of approach: one, immediate, which addresses the humanitarian emergency, and another, which looks at the root problems. in this context, a set of immediate measures was adopted, such as the reinforcement of the operational and human resources of the frontex and easo agencies and the temporary relocation mechanism. on a proposal from parliament, the financial support to member states will be the same for all refugees relocated. as the report points out, the difficulty in making funds available to respond to this crisis, as well as the mortgaging of funds for the coming years should we be faced with another unexpected event, highlights the lack of flexibility of the budget and the need for a larger community budget. the measures adopted and the improvements introduced by parliament are commendable, but here too we see that the union does not yet have all the tools it needs to face the challenges posed by this crisis.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the situation in the middle east, the european council called on the eu to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is resolved as soon as possible. we are thus strengthening the agencies dealing with migration and refugees, the funds and programmes supporting the response and reception mechanisms for refugees arriving in europe, and the funds and programmes to tackle the root causes of the problem and to combat its causes. we have increased the budget for these objectives from eur 2 billion to eur 4 billion in the 2016 budget. the european union is thus in a position to support the refugees it receives internally and at the same time to act at the root of this problematic phenomenon, i.e. externally, by focusing on prevention and strengthening humanitarian aid and development and cooperation instruments. i voted in favour.
‒ the flexibility instrument is designed to ensure greater flexibility in the multiannual financial framework in order to respond to unforeseen circumstances that justify exceeding the ceilings for budgetary appropriations, with a maximum annual amount of eur 471 million (2011 prices). this proposal replaces the european commission's proposal to mobilise eur 123 966 698 for title 3 (security and citizenship) of the eu budget to support measures to respond to the refugee crisis. it is therefore proposed to mobilise eur 1504 million from this instrument to allow the title 3 ceilings to be exceeded by the same amount, using for this purpose funds not used in the previous years 2014 and 2015. the payments will be made until 2019 (eur 710 million in 2016, eur 652,9 million in 2017, eur 82,7 million in 2018 and eur 58,5 million in 2019). we voted in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme for research and technological development. in view of the urgent need to mobilise additional funds to finance the cost of measures to manage the refugee crisis, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ article 11 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument up to an annual ceiling of eur 471 million (2011 values) to allow for the financing of specifically identified expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings. given the urgent need to address the migration and refugee crisis, it is essential to mobilise additional funding to finance support measures. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the mobilisation of this instrument, that it is crucial that the union budget should be more flexible. this additional appropriation is only possible thanks to the carry-over of unused amounts from the flexibility instrument for the financial years 2014 and 2015. the report contains a number of important points, and i would like to stress that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
‒ the current refugee crisis requires adequate funding for the urgent measures provided for under the european agenda on migration. however, the expenditure ceilings under category 3 (security and citizenship) and category 4 (global europe) do not allow to address the external dimension of the challenges. it is therefore necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016, beyond the ceilings, by more than eur 1506 million for category 3 and by more than eur 24 million for category 4. the additional appropriations will be made possible by the carry-over of unused amounts from the flexibility instruments for the financial years 2014 and 2015. the european commission proposes to reallocate commitment appropriations over several years, estimated at eur 734,2 million in 2016, eur 654,2 million in 2017, eur 83,0 million in 2018 and eur 58,6 million in 2019. it should be noted that this reallocation allows the financing of the measures adopted, as provided for in article 11 of the mff regulation. in the light of the foregoing, i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument.
‒ the solidarity instrument is mobilised to make available the amounts of eur 1 506 million in category 3 (security and citizenship) and eur 24 million in category 4 (global europe), to be used to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis. it also adds the proposal for the allocation of payment appropriations of eur 734,2 million in 2016, eur 654,2 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58,6 million in 2019.
‒ europe has been experiencing, particularly over the last year, a long and difficult challenge with the continuing wave of migrants/refugees, who are looking to the old continent for a new lease of life. however, this situation has in some cases led to tragic outcomes and for this reason the european union has sought to respond by using the instruments at its disposal. in this respect, the eu has adopted a model for financing urgent measures in the field of migration, which was proposed by the european commission, through the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. the proposal was to increase the allocation of payment appropriations by a further eur 1506 million (for the heading 'security and citizenship') and eur 24 million for the heading 'global europe', which constitutes additional, basic and indispensable aid in view of the dramatic development of this situation. i therefore believe that using this instrument to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis is a necessary and justifiable decision to activate this extra procedure, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ an urgent response is required to this situation in the balkans. this unstoppable and significant flow is of the greatest concern from a humanitarian point of view, whose situation has worsened in recent days with the imposition by several countries of discriminatory and illegal barriers to the movement of people on the basis of their nationality. measures that add to acts of violence and extortion committed by the authorities against helpless and vulnerable people. the eu's much-touted funding is intended above all to accentuate the aggressive and xenophobic nature of the current european immigration policy, which is based on the persecution, expulsion and stigmatisation of immigrants. the only response that is compatible with some of the values and principles that the european union likes to proclaim but does not practice is the only response that is compatible with the human rights of those fleeing the misery, chaos and war that the european union has helped to sow and actively nurtured. the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of the child and to the protection of the rights of the child.
‒ the flexibility instrument is designed to ensure greater flexibility in the multiannual financial framework in order to respond to unforeseen circumstances that justify exceeding the ceilings for budgetary appropriations, with a maximum annual amount of eur 471 million (2011 prices). this proposal replaces the european commission's proposal to mobilise eur 123 966 698 for title 3 (security and citizenship) of the eu budget to support measures to respond to the refugee crisis. it is therefore proposed to mobilise eur 1504 million from this instrument to allow the title 3 ceilings to be exceeded by the same amount, using for this purpose funds not used in the previous years 2014 and 2015. the payments will be made until 2019 (eur 710 million in 2016, eur 652,9 million in 2017, eur 82,7 million in 2018 and eur 58,5 million in 2019). we voted in favour, obviously in view of the urgency of providing humanitarian and inclusion support to migrants and refugees. we hope that these funds will be used for that purpose, not to finance repression.
‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state and to countries negotiating its accession in the event of a major natural disaster. the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster. it aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in an efficient and timely manner in the event of a disaster in the coming year. this is the direct result of a new provision in the 2014 amending regulation, strongly supported by the european parliament, which aims to accelerate the disbursement of aid to affected countries by paying an advance before the final decision on aid is taken, enhancing the effectiveness of the fund. i support this report because the eusf, in addition to providing assistance to the affected citizens, also contributes to sending a clear political message of solidarity. a rapid response capability, including the payment of an advance, will help the union to achieve these objectives.
‒ the european union solidarity fund is intended to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and the fund's intervention should not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. however, this proposal is not linked to a specific disaster and aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in order to respond in an efficient and timely manner should a disaster occur in the next year. i voted in favour.
‒ this proposal seeks to include in the 2016 budget the advance payment of eur 50 000 000 in payment and commitment appropriations through the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. o-a.this proposal is not linked to any specific disaster; it will only serve to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in advance of the formal and final decision to mobilise and allocate aid, so as to respond in a timely and more effective manner to a potential catastrophic event that occurs during 2016. we have long argued for the need to speed up the procedures associated with the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. the urgency of responding to disasters is not compatible with complex, time-consuming and, above all, avoidable bureaucratic procedures. this report is intended to welcome and to some extent respond to this concern and we have therefore voted in favour.
‒ the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is not linked to a particular disaster. it aims to allow the entry in the general budget of the european union for 2016 of an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely payment of advances in the event of a disaster in the following year. this is a preventive measure in the budget. i voted in favour.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the european union to cope with emergencies caused by large-scale natural disasters and to show european solidarity to the affected regions of europe. i support the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and the council, stressing that it is not linked to a specific disaster. this proposal aims to allocate in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in an efficient and timely manner in the event of a disaster in the coming year. i believe that this measure is necessary because it will speed up the disbursement of aid to the countries concerned by paying an advance before the final decision on aid is taken, thus enhancing the effectiveness of the eusf. i agree with the rapporteur that the eusf is not just another form of eu financial support, but also a clear political message of solidarity, providing the necessary assistance to the citizens affected.
in writing. i voted in favour, as i believe it is important to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for the payment of advances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it aims to enter in the general budget for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million for disaster advances, increasing the efficiency and speed of aid.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the fight against terrorism, the commission has decided to propose to the council that the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union solidarity fund for the prevention of terrorism. this is a safeguard measure which has legal standing thanks to the amendment to article 4a of regulation (eu) no 661/2014. to that extent, you deserve my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are talking about the inclusion of €50 000 000 in the 2016 budget in payment provisions and commitments for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. oa.this proposal is not linked to any specific disaster, it will only serve to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in advance before the formal and final decision to mobilise and allocate aid, so as to respond in a timely and more effective manner to a potential catastrophic event occurring during 2016.
‒ this proposal seeks to include in the 2016 budget the advance payment of eur 50 000 000 in payment appropriations and commitment appropriations under the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. this proposal will only serve to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in advance, before the formal and final decision to mobilise and allocate aid, so as to respond in a timely and more effective manner to a potential catastrophic event occurring during the year 2016. we voted yes.
‒ i support the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes on the 2016 budget and congratulate him on the excellent work he has done, meeting all deadlines and making use of all available budgetary margins. the rapporteur was consistent with his policy of the 3 e's: employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship. i congratulate him on his tenacity in forcing the council to back down in the face of the unjustified cuts he had made in relation to the european commission proposal and which were particularly damaging to horizon 2020 under the auspices of the portuguese commissioner carlos moedas. i congratulate him on his efforts to put an end to the scandal of late payments and regret that it has not been possible to close the gap of 11 billion euro between commitments and payments. i congratulate you on the significant increase in the appropriations you are doubling to deal with the refugee crisis. i congratulate him on the formal joint declaration on the youth employment initiative and hope that it will be translated into continued and widespread support for programmes to combat this scourge, which also reveals a europe unequal between countries where unemployment is residual and those where a large percentage of citizens fear for their future.
‒ this process has developed extremely positively, respecting all the political priorities defined by parliament, in particular as regards support for the promotion of employment, the dynamisation of the economy, the valorisation of knowledge and research in the growth strategy and the strengthening of the european union's capacity for internal and external solidarity. the overall eu budget for 2016 is eur 155.004,2 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 143.885,3 million in payment appropriations. these amounts represent an increase in the planned appropriations, compared with the initial budget proposed by the european commission, of more than eur 2.8 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 2.15 billion in payment appropriations. the budget was pushed to the limit, using all available resources and the entire flexibility instrument to meet the challenge of promoting employment and helping refugees, and all budgetary margins for the headings relating to employment, social and territorial cohesion and internal and external solidarity were exhausted.
‒ this report assumes the validation and approval of the joint text agreed in the conciliation committee, which concerns the eu budget for 2016. the agreement, as one would expect, does not change the underlying meaning of the criticisms we have made of the eu budget, which justified our vote against it at second reading and which now justifies that same vote against it. this joint text allows, for example, for a reduction of eur 11 075 000 in title 3 of the multiannual financial framework from the budget lines for the protection, detection and control of plant and animal pests and from the fund for emergency measures relating to animal and plant health. despite the increase in commitments for horizon 2020, the cosme programme and the erasmus+ programme, payment appropriations were cut by eur 460 100 000. cuts were made in the total of budget lines for the promotion of sustainable rural development (eur 87 000 000), in the european regional development fund (erdf) (eur 127 259 355), in the cohesion funds (eur 43 693 564) and in rural development programmes (eur 33 000 000). the european parliament is committed to cutting some 179 jobs by 2019, down from 60 in 2016.
‒ conciliation consists of direct negotiations between the two co-legislators (parliament and council) within the conciliation committee with a view to reaching an agreement in the form of a joint text. that agreement was reached and the report approves the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee on the draft general budget of the european union for 2016. i voted in favour.
in the 2016 budget, the overall level of commitment appropriations is set at eur 155.004,2 million and the overall level of payment appropriations at eur 143.885,3 million. i am voting in favour of this report, which allows for an increase in the funds allocated to finance smes and youth programmes, both of which are fundamental mechanisms for strengthening the european union's competitiveness and encouraging the training of young people. i would also like to highlight the approval of the 'smart port cities' pilot project, which i proposed in the plenary session of the parliamentary committee on transport and tourism and which will now enter into force, with a view to creating a european network of port and smart cities.
in writing. i voted in favour, as i believe that this budget has succeeded in increasing the amount of money provided compared with the initial budget proposed by the european commission and in concluding with the council a budget which supports job creation, stimulates the economy and values knowledge and research in the growth strategy.
‒ this legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft common budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 was adopted by the conciliation committee in the framework of the budgetary procedure. i am in favour of the adoption of this report, which approves the 2016 budget and the amounts of the eu contributions in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations for the decentralised agencies and the executive agencies. i would also like to highlight as a positive point the approval of the overall package of 89 pilot projects/preparatory actions, totalling eur 64.9 million, as proposed by parliament, as well as the amount of eur 50.8 billion for economic, social and territorial cohesion (1/3 of the total union budget), of which eur 46.6 billion (92%) will be allocated to investment in growth and jobs, one of the eu's political priorities.
in writing. ‒ in a context of strong budgetary constraints on national contributions to the union budget, some concerns should be noted. first of all, we draw attention to the cut of eur 11 million which will directly affect the budget lines devoted to the protection, detection and control of plant and animal pests. this cut, in a context where climate change is leading to the emergence of several epidemic crises, leaves us at least apprehensive. there is talk of a significant increase in programmes for youth employment, but we must realise that the erasmus+ programme represents a minimal portion of the budget and that therefore the 30% increase will unfortunately not have a great impact. we also note that the european parliament is committed to cutting some 179 jobs by 2019, with 60 jobs expected to be eliminated in 2016. finally, a final word on the increase in funding for emigration. it could be positive, if it were not for the deliberate aim of promoting persecutory solutions which will help to perpetuate the problem, rather than resolve it with a genuine policy of solidarity and support for development.
‒ in a context of major budgetary constraints on national contributions to the eu budget, we note here the cut of eur 11 million, which will directly affect the budget lines dedicated to the protection, detection and control of plant and animal pests. there is talk of a significant increase in programmes dedicated to youth employment, but given that the erasmus+ programme represents a minimal portion of the eu budget, a 30% increase in this programme will not have much impact. the european parliament commits to cutting some 179 jobs by 2019 and 60 jobs by 2016, which means more redundancies and a decline in the quality of services. this is not a fairer budget, with higher contributions from the wealthier member states, but a restrictive budget.
‒ dehp has been included in the list of 553 candidate substances in chemical category i that have been shown to have harmful endocrine effects in at least one species using intact animals. it was also one of the first six compounds to be phased out under the reach regulation. however, dehp should be identified as a substance of very high concern as it is a substance with endocrine disrupting properties for which there is scientific evidence that it is likely to cause serious effects on human health. i therefore agree to a new draft rejection of the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled flexible pvc containing dehp.
‒ phthalates are a family of industrial chemicals used to make pvc plastic flexible and as solvents in cosmetics and other consumer products. studies indicate that these chemicals can affect the liver, kidneys, lungs, hormonal and reproductive systems of mammals and are therefore included in the reach regulation due to their classification as toxic to reproduction. this draft objection concerns the draft commission implementing decision granting an authorisation for uses of bis (2-ethyl-hexyl) phthalate (dehp). this implementing act implies a wider authorisation for the use and formulation of recycled pvc containing dehp. this would lead to a continued presence of hazardous substances in products made from recycled material, thus perpetuating the use of hazardous substances through recycling rather than their replacement. the objection further considers that the draft commission implementing decision, which proposes to authorise the use of these products for a further 7 years, exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006, and requests the commission to withdraw its draft decision by submitting a draft rejection of the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled flexible pvc containing dehp. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on draft commission implementing decision xxx granting an authorisation for uses of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) under regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. dehp should be identified as a substance of very high concern. dehp meets the criteria of article 57 (f) of the reach regulation as a substance with endocrine disrupting properties for which there is scientific evidence that it is likely to cause serious effects on human health. it is extremely important that eu citizens are aware of the dangers of these substances.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the draft directive should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 189b of the ec treaty. dehp is known to be part of the list of industrial chemicals used in plastics, cosmetics and other types of consumer products and is considered a toxic substance capable of causing problems for human health. i therefore agree with the adoption of this draft objection concerning the use of this substance, not only because of its toxicity but also because it formally goes beyond the scope of the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006, and i therefore support the rapporteur's position to withdraw the draft commission decision and to submit a new draft rejection of the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled flexible pvc containing deph.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection raised by the rapporteurs because i do not think it is fair to allocate the use of deph to a small number of recyclers, which will have a negative impact on european recyclers, will harm innovation and competitiveness in europe and will result in the loss of credibility that the recycling sector presents. dehp is known to be a well-known toxic substance. dehp is widely used, and both eu citizens and the environment are exposed. however, there are safe alternatives. the applicants did not fulfil all the conditions for the authorisation to be granted and 90% of the application dossier was classified as confidential by the applicants with the consent of the european chemicals agency. although i understand the interest of industrial secrecy in exceptional situations, i consider it a priority and a determining factor that industry should act in a clear and transparent manner.
‒ dehp is a toxic substance well known, among other things, for its endocrine disrupting effects. unfortunately, dehp is widely used putting citizens at high risk of its toxicity. we have doubts about the evaluation of the european chemicals agency (echa) as 90% of the application process was classified as confidential by the applicants. this context implies that relevant information, such as details on exposure and production volumes, has not been disclosed. we therefore do not understand the commission's implementing decision, which proposes to authorize the use of these products for another seven years, and we propose instead to suspend the application for authorization.
‒ phthalates are a family of industrial chemicals used to make pvc plastic flexible and as solvents in cosmetics and other consumer products. studies indicate that these chemicals can affect the liver, kidneys, lungs, hormonal and reproductive systems of mammals and are therefore included in the reach regulation due to their classification as toxic to reproduction. this draft objection concerns the draft commission implementing decision granting an authorisation for uses of bis (2-ethyl-hexyl) phthalate (dehp). this implementing act implies a wider authorisation for the use and formulation of recycled pvc containing dehp. this would lead to a continued presence of hazardous substances in products made from recycled material thus perpetuating the use of hazardous substances through recycling rather than their replacement. the objection further considers that the draft commission implementing decision, which proposes to authorise the use of these products for a further 7 years, exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006, and requests the commission to withdraw its draft decision by submitting a draft rejection of the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled flexible pvc containing dehp. we voted in favour.
‒ a fair tax system based on the principle of taxation in the member state where profits are generated, the presentation of country-by-country financial information by multinationals, the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, the creation of a common eu definition of tax havens and the protection of whistleblowers are some of the actions proposed by the european parliament. most large multinational companies operating in europe pay effective rates of 5%, sometimes lower, even in countries where the nominal tax rate is 30% and above. the european parliament wants multinational companies in all sectors to disclose in their financial statements, broken down by member state and by third country in which they have establishments, a range of aggregated information, including profit or loss before tax, taxes on profit or loss, the number of employees, assets held and basic information on tax rulings (reporting by country). this information shall be made available to the public, possibly in the form of a central register at eu level.
in writing. ‒ we have always said that the free movement of capital would lead to increased tax evasion and avoidance and would facilitate the transfer of profits, which would harm public coffers. the creation of the single market has proved to be beneficial for multinationals and detrimental to workers and smes. in the name of competitiveness and attracting foreign investment, member states compete with each other. the multinationals, in their relentless pursuit of profit, assisted by big consultancies and with the connivance of policy makers, dictate the rules of the game. luxleaks and the taxe commission's investigations have shown that while governments designed tax decisions and legislation that allowed multinationals to minimise their tax rate and encouraged them to shift profits, in the name of complying with the sgp and complaining about the need for tax revenues, stability and tranquility in financial markets, they dictated so-called austerity policies (increasing taxes on labour, decreasing the viability of direct taxes and progressive cuts in public spending). the report voted on today is wrong in that it does not make public the tax decisions that have been taken in advance, in that it does not quantify the size of these decisions, their impact on the tax revenues of the different member states and in that it is soft on those who are politically responsible for these decisions.
‒ one of the main priorities of tax policy at eu level should be to promote greater cooperation between tax administrations in the control and fight against fraud and harmful tax competition. i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect, which provides, among other measures, for the strengthening of the exchange of information (when a tax agreement is concluded between a country and a company, it is automatically communicated to the european commission and the other countries).
‒ the globalisation and digitalisation of the economy have radically changed the global value chain and the way markets work, with most large companies now having a transnational structure that needs to go beyond national tax rules. i am voting in favour of this report, which calls for new financial rules for transnational trade, greater control of national tax systems and new rules to prevent certain member states from making available lower taxation but which could generate more profits. i also understand that tackling aggressive tax planning by multinational companies has been high on the political agenda of the member states, the eu, the oecd and the g20, and it is essential to adopt the position of principle that a company must pay taxes where it operates and not where it has its tax headquarters, thus avoiding legal but unethical financial shenanigans by companies.
‒ this is a report calling on member states and the eu institutions, which share political responsibility for the current situation, to put an end to harmful tax competition and to cooperate fully in order to eliminate both disparities between tax systems and all measures that create the conditions for large-scale tax avoidance by many multinational companies. for many years, large multinationals have been able to reduce their tax contributions through advantageous negotiations with different member states. as a result, the tax bill for health and education, for example, is borne mostly by smes and the average citizen, who are excluded from these unfair tax offers. these are not isolated cases, but a systematic and organized practice that is at least tolerated by the states. this vicious circle must be broken by strengthening transparency, control and sanctions. one year after the luxleaks scandal, the european parliament approves a report that aims to put an end to an unacceptable and unfair practice towards all honest taxpayers, a timely decision at a time when budget cuts are being called for in social services.
‒ the tax practices in some eu member states are highly controversial and have sparked debate on their nature and legitimacy at european level. that is why a temporary special committee on taxation decisions was set up in the european parliament a few months ago and other measures were adopted to put an end to unfair tax practices and to combat tax evasion in europe. i also think it is important to stress, among other measures mentioned in the report, that taxes on company profits will now be calculated using common methods, in order to avoid repeating past situations and to avoid new controversial cases. i voted in favour of the report because i consider the measures contained in it to be generally positive.
‒ these practices, which are designed to circumvent national tax authorities by draining profits to territories where they are not taxed, such as tax havens, are closely linked to the current process of european integration, which has as one of its main features the free movement of capital and as its main consequence globalisation. if it were not for the disclosure of successive tax scandals at a time when the people of europe are suffering the effects of austerity policies, we would probably still be living with these crimes with total impunity. it was therefore public outrage that was the real engine that propelled this whole well-intentioned plan. the report under discussion today is still incomplete. we have fought against many obstacles in these months. we still have no access to documents of great importance for a proper assessment and ascertainment of the facts. every day new elements emerge involving senior european officials and which have necessitated an extension of the mandate of the taxe committee. as this report is incomplete, we abstained, in the conviction that the work will continue, confronting the european institutions with their responsibilities, but also with their action plan announced last june, which has made little or no progress.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect (2015/20667ini), because it includes very significant progress in the crucial fight against aggressive taxation, which undermines the single market, competitive transparency and the financing of the european social model. the report highlights the excellent work carried out by the special committee on tax agreements and other measures similar in nature or effect, and in particular by its co-rapporteurs, elisa ferreira and michael theurer. it also identified that, more than the non-harmonisation of rates, it is the non-harmonisation of criteria for the calculation of taxable items and the absence of exchange of information between member states on these items that create the conditions for intolerable tax avoidance and aggressive competitiveness between member states, resulting in a negative-sum game for the union's interest. i also believe that the work of this committee should be continued, particularly in view of the information which was not available during its term of office.
‒ tax fraud and tax evasion, which are designed to circumvent national tax authorities in order to divert profits to non-taxed territories such as tax havens, are deeply linked to the process of european integration, which has the free movement of capital as one of its main pillars and globalisation as its main consequence. if it were not for the disclosure of successive tax scandals at a time when the people of europe are suffering the effects of austerity policies, we would probably still be living with these crimes with total impunity. as this is an incomplete report, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is now clear that the fight against terrorism cannot be based solely on military and police retaliation and increased security measures. it is also imperative to tackle the deep-rooted and complex causes that lead to the radicalisation of european citizens, the overwhelming majority of whom are young people. the european union must therefore pay particular attention to the marginalisation and uprooting of these young people, in order to give them back the horizon of expectations that they feel they are deprived of today. this will require the involvement of society as a whole and of various fields of knowledge and action. it is also an ideological battle against fear and for the values we hold most dear. in parallel, the eu must have more effective legislation to combat online radicalisation and to allow better coordination and exchange of information between our police and intelligence services.
‒ this report, which is a result of the attacks in paris earlier this year, has been given added weight by the recent criminal acts in paris. it deals with one of the most important issues in the fight against terrorism, which requires a comprehensive set of measures, both repressive and preventive. it is prudent not to legislate in response to events, let alone to give in to securities derivatives. to compromise our core values would be to grant a victory to the terrorists. as regards radicalisation, this report provides a good diagnosis and a set of valid solutions which should be pursued, including, among others, preventive measures in prisons and schools or a harmonisation of the penal framework. the emphasis on action at local level, on proximity, and not just on european level and coordinated action between states, is particularly important. i voted in favour of this report despite disagreeing with some of the points which i consider excessive.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the radicalization and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations such as the islamic state or daesh. more than 5000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military formations, including the ranks of the self-proclaimed islamic state/daesh, jabhat al-nusra and other formations outside the eu, in particular in the middle east and north africa region. the fight against terrorism remains essentially a matter for member states, but 'european cooperation is essential for the effective and efficient exchange of information between police forces' in an area of free movement of persons. a strategy to combat terrorism, radicalisation and terrorist recruitment in the eu can only be effective if it is developed in parallel with a strategy for social integration and inclusion. i voted in favour.
‒ this report proposes a number of measures, supposedly in the name of combating terrorism, which deliberately avoid the root of the problem, without contributing to its solution, to the increase of the security of citizens or to a coherent strategy of cooperation between states to combat and above all prevent terrorism. on the contrary, this report endorses the curtailment of individual freedoms, insisting on the peregrine thesis of the false dichotomy of freedom and security, and supports a militaristic vision of the alleged fight against terrorism which, instead of weakening, strengthens the logic of hatred, war and terrorism. measures such as the drafting of a directive on indiscriminate passenger identification registers, the strengthening and centralisation of the powers of europol, eurojust, cepol and the various eu information systems, the obligation for member states to make certain information and data available, the criminalisation of internet companies, the weakening of computer encryption systems are aspects of concern in this document and therefore constitute a restriction of fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees. we voted against it. the response to terrorism must necessarily be to combat its root causes - political, economic and social - and to defend and affirm the values of freedom, peace, democracy, the sovereignty and independence of states and solidarity between peoples.
‒ concerted action at european level is essential to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. but this prevention also requires stronger cooperation, more effective control and the existence of instruments to combat terrorism. the european union needs a passenger identification register (pnr), it needs the regulation of smart borders, which will allow for more effective and rigorous control, it needs to coordinate efforts in the exchange of information between national authorities and it needs to monitor the proliferation of social networks and the recruitment of european citizens that is developed through this channel. it's not enough to say we won't give in to fear. we need to act. we must fight to eliminate extremism that attacks our values, our way of life, our existence. we can't be kidnapped in our own home.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of the child, and to the protection of the rights of the child. the attacks in mali and tunisia show that insecurity is a global problem. it is therefore necessary for the union to act in a coordinated and joint manner with member states and other organisations in preventing the recruitment of european citizens into the ranks of terrorist organisations such as daesh. it is estimated that more than 5000 europeans have already joined, mainly from belgium and france. this document serves as a recommendation for the future european strategy on this subject. the need for the authorities to ensure stricter control over the internet and websites that incite hatred is mentioned, as well as the need to promote a preventive role among the prison population, the role of education and school, the sharing of information between intelligence services, the control of external borders to prevent and anticipate the return of recruited citizens and the proper follow-up of these citizens. i voted in favour because i believe in the need for intercultural dialogue and greater coordination, because terrorism is not a religion, it is not a civilization or a nationality.
‒ the fight against the radicalisation of european citizens who are recruited by terrorist organisations is primarily a matter for the member states. however, the effectiveness of the strategy in this fight lacks a concerted european approach anchored in prevention. in this particular case, prevention of terrorism involves preventing radicalisation in prisons, on the internet and in public spaces in general, through education and social inclusion, which promotes critical thinking and the promotion of non-discrimination in schools and, outside schools, reduces the risk of economic and geographical marginalisation, which are key factors in the radicalisation of alienated and excluded young people. on the other hand, the exchange of information on terrorist radicalisation in europe is also a vital tool for combating the radicalisation of european citizens. however, some member states still stubbornly refuse to cooperate in sensitive areas such as the exchange of information and strategic intelligence. i voted in favour of this report in the hope that the strategy against the radicalisation of citizens will be strengthened.
‒ the fight against the radicalisation of european citizens remains a matter for the member states. however, a concerted european approach is needed to effectively combat the threat posed by radicalised european citizens who can move freely within europe. it is estimated that over 5000 european citizens have left to fight for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria. the aim of this report is to make recommendations for a european strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens. some of the measures include preventing violent extremism and terrorist radicalisation in prisons and on the internet, prevention through education and social inclusion, enhancing the exchange of information and best practices at various levels, or dismantling terrorist networks. respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens will nevertheless always be a concern of the european parliament.
‒ the unspeakably barbaric acts of terrorism that have taken place in europe in recent months have led to a consequent increase in security measures. but these attacks have not only served to raise the real alarm about the current terrorism, but also to remind us of the importance of continuing to strengthen and speed up measures to prevent acts such as those that recently took place in paris. with the ultimate aim of eradicating the problem of terrorism, the european union has taken important steps in this direction. the report aims to strengthen certain preventive measures both in relation to the radicalisation of european citizens and in relation to the speeding up of european cooperation processes between member states. unfortunately, more than 5000 european citizens have defected to countries such as syria or iraq to join the ranks of terrorist groups. cooperation and exchange of information at european level is therefore essential to prevent the free movement of such citizens, between their countries of origin and the other member states, whose motive is to commit terrorist acts. european concertation on such a sensitive subject is therefore needed more than ever , which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ we live in times of great anxiety and with an almost universal feeling of insecurity. to prevent perpetual loss of freedom, action must be taken now and rules must be understood as temporary. it is with this in mind that i voted in favour of this report. we must act now to achieve normalcy in terms of individual freedoms and clarity of action as quickly as possible. the future of europe depends on encouraging whistleblowing or the use of 'blacklists'. unfortunately, in the present, we will have to deal momentarily with these types of instruments.
‒ the report proposes a set of measures which are purportedly in the name of combating terrorism, but which deliberately circumvent the root of the problem, without contributing to its solution, to the increase of citizens' security or to a coherent strategy of cooperation between states to combat and, above all, prevent terrorism. on the contrary, this report supports the eu's deliberate strategy of curtailing democratic freedom and individual freedoms, insisting on the pilgrim thesis of the false freedom-security dichotomy and supporting a militaristic vision of the alleged fight against terrorism which, instead of weakening, strengthens the logic of hatred and war. horrible crimes such as those committed in paris, or those which have been perpetrated for years in various places around the world, call for a policy of peace in international relations and respect for international law, which puts an end to interference and aggression against sovereign states, particularly in the middle east region, which have led to the resurgence of terrorist groups.
‒ the report proposes a set of measures which are purportedly in the name of combating terrorism, but which deliberately circumvent the root of the problem, without contributing to its solution, to the increase of citizens' security or to a coherent strategy of cooperation between states to combat and, above all, prevent terrorism. on the contrary, this report supports the eu's deliberate strategy of curtailing democratic freedom and individual freedoms, and supports a militaristic vision of the alleged fight against terrorism which, instead of weakening, strengthens the logic of hatred and war. the imposition of measures that undermine rights and freedoms, which is always accompanied by the escalation of the militarization of international relations, war and the interference and destabilization of sovereign states, feeds the growth of racist, xenophobic and fascist forces and their terrorism. horrible crimes such as those committed in paris, or those which have been perpetrated for years in various places around the world, call for a policy of peace in international relations and respect for international law, which puts an end to interference and aggression against sovereign states, particularly in the middle east region, which have led to the resurgence of terrorist groups. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4 000 workers die as a result of work-related accidents, and the number of fatal occupational diseases is over 150 000 per year. good working conditions that safeguard good physical and mental health are a fundamental right of workers and, despite considerable progress in the field of health and safety at work over the years, important risks to the health and safety of workers persist. i believe it is vital to develop specific european strategies covering all forms of employment, and national strategies for health and safety at work should follow up on the progress made in these areas in other member states. on the other hand, we must continue to improve the implementation of these rules and be demanding on the compliance of the labour authorities with the rules, and the work of the national labour inspectorates is essential. particular attention should be paid to new forms of employment as well as to new technologies which pose new challenges to health and safety at work.
in writing. ‒ every year more than 4,000 workers die as a result of work-related accidents and the number of fatal occupational diseases is over 150,000 per year. the ageing workforce in many member states and demographic changes in europe point to the need to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout the entire life cycle. in the eu strategic framework for 2014-2020 on health and safety at work, the commission identifies several important challenges facing european employers and workers in the field of health and safety at work. effective management of health and safety at work remains a challenge for micro and small enterprises. action is therefore essential to promote compliance and effective management of health and safety at work by these companies. i voted in favour.
‒ the report stresses the strategic importance of the development of occupational safety and health (osh) policies for the period 2014-2020. despite some more negative aspects, which we do not follow, such as the association of this strategic framework with the neoliberal eu 2020 strategy, the report contains other undoubtedly positive and important aspects. the definition of osh policies is advocated and encouraged, linking them to undeclared work and false self-employment, gender equality and the fight against harassment, the need for a 'balanced' working time, or access to public health services to issues of the highest relevance. in addition to promoting these measures, there is the promotion of appropriate training and worker representation in the formulation and monitoring of osh policies. these are reasons for our vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. the number of workers who die each year as a result of accidents at work and the number of occupational diseases with fatal outcome is extremely worrying. the economic and social costs of accidents at work and occupational diseases require immediate action at eu level.
‒ health and safety at work are essential for society, and are seen as beneficial investments in the productivity and competitiveness of companies, as well as improving the sustainability of social security systems and enabling people to enjoy good health until retirement age. i agree that the prevention of occupational hazards, the promotion of health and safety and the protection of workers at work are essential factors for improving working conditions and, consequently, for protecting the health of workers, which in turn benefits workers and society in general socially and economically. the european union, in accordance with article 153 tfeu, shall support and complement the action of the member states in improving the working environment in order to protect the health and safety of workers. i believe that national strategies for health and safety at work, which should be in line with eu guidelines, are fundamental and contribute to progress in this area in the member states. unfortunately, the economic crisis has caused some instability in employment and reduced company revenues, and this cannot put the importance of health and safety on the back burner.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4,000 workers die as a result of work-related accidents and the number of fatal occupational diseases is over 150,000 per year. despite all the progress made, much remains to be done. having identified several important challenges facing european employers and workers in the field of occupational health and safety, it is now time to move forward with legislative proposals aimed at raising the level of occupational health and safety across the eu. in addition to a substantial set of proposed measures, this report does not forget the increase in precarious work (and its impact on workers' mental health) and the new forms of employment linked to new technologies, which have posed new challenges to occupational health and safety that need to be addressed.
‒ issues of health and safety at work are of great concern and require coordinated work by the european institutions. some 4,000 workers die each year in work-related accidents and 150,000 suffer from work-related diseases. precarious work, new technologies and the ageing of european workers have been some of the factors driving change in our workforce. these are challenges that lack urgent and effective solutions to halt the scourge. to this end, preventive measures should be strengthened and supervision tightened. examples such as productivity, labour participation and the sustainability of the social security system itself are the positive results of a set of measures and policies in health and safety at work that are re-thought and implemented. i therefore feel it is important to give my full support to this own-initiative report on the eu strategic framework for occupational health and safety 2014-2020, so that positive and more effective measures are put in place for a safer and more predictable future for europe's workplace.
‒ we note the importance of the definition of occupational safety and health (osh) policies as a strategic eu definition for the period 2014-2020. we do not follow the report in its federalist perspective, with references to the union's capacity to support and complement the action of the states, or in the relation of this strategy to the europe 2020 objectives or the need to implement european-wide legislation and strategic guidelines, in particular the sst strategic framework. despite these issues, the report refers to and encourages the development of osh policies, linking it to undeclared work and false self-employment, gender equality and the fight against harassment, the need for 'balanced' working hours, or access to public health services. in addition to promoting these measures, there is the promotion of appropriate training and worker representation in the formulation and monitoring of osh policies.
‒ the report stresses the importance of the definition of occupational safety and health (osh) policies as a strategic eu definition for the period 2014-2020. there are federalist frameworks in the report, with which we do not agree, with references to the european union's ability to support and complement the action of the states; the relationship of this strategy with the europe 2020 objectives; the need to apply legislation and strategic guidelines at european level. despite these issues, the report refers to and encourages the development of osh policies, linking it to undeclared work and false self-employment; to gender equality and the fight against harassment; to the need for 'balanced' working hours; or to access to public health services. in addition to promoting these measures, there is the promotion of appropriate training and worker representation in the formulation and monitoring of osh policies. the report is generally positive, and we have therefore voted in favour of it.
the european union is committed to the promotion of gender equality in all its policies and activities. the scale of the problem was highlighted in a survey carried out by the european agency for fundamental rights in 2014, which surveyed 42 000 women in 28 member states. the results of the survey are revealing: some 13 million women were victims of physical violence in the previous 12 months, and 3.7 million were victims of sexual violence. the urgency of this matter is therefore beyond doubt. violence against women constitutes an attack on one of the most basic human rights, it is an attack on fundamental rights, on individual freedom. a european union which believes in the full development of the personality of its citizens cannot but intervene so that this kind of attitude may in time become a thing of the past.
mr president, since we have been talking here mainly about the valletta summit, i think it is worthwhile to focus some attention on the g20 group and, in particular, on the approach taken by the g20 meeting in antalya to the question of terrorism, since it took place immediately after the paris attacks of 13 november. what i wanted to make clear here is that the fight against terrorism by european countries and, in particular, by the european union must be a fight without a truce. we must give a clear response on the external front, with military action and military cooperation with france, the united states, the coalition countries and the islamic state, and we must also take some measures, such as the approval of the pnr at the internal level, and others, such as strengthening the external borders of schengen in the context of the european union. i also think it is very important that we have here a great opportunity to strengthen european cooperation and to strengthen the european union's presence in security and defence matters. in particular, i believe it is essential that we move from the frontex and other programmes towards the creation of a genuine european border guard, which can protect the external borders of schengen and the external borders of the european union, with a membership of all european countries. it is essential to take this step because without it, we will not have effective control, we will not have effective defence of our security and we will be vulnerable, we will be exposed to terrorist attacks. there are no economic, social or sociological explanations for terrorism. terrorism must be fought without any fail on our part.
at the valletta summit we saw a fragmented european union, focused on border controls and increasing restrictions on the entry of refugees, trying to outsource the dirty work, including through readmission agreements which would, if they were ever signed, play the same role as those that berlusconi once concluded with the do-gooder gaddafi. we've also seen african governments demanding more investment and development aid for kleptocratic and oppressive regimes, and therefore prolific makers of refugees and migrants, like those in sudan, eritrea and ethiopia, among others. let us be clear: the european union, through the primary responsibility of its governments, has failed to stop wars, conflicts, terrorism, oppression and economic exploitation at its doorstep or further afield in africa, to which it is linked by historical and human ties. despite all the rhetoric, the european union has privileged relations with governments, however corrupt, and has lip service to supporting the organization of african citizens who are fighting oppression and corruption. as we have been calling for here in the european parliament for a long time, opening safe and legal channels of access for refugees and migrants is fundamental and is the main way to protect the lives of men, women and children so that they do not have to give themselves up to the hands of traffickers and throw themselves into the sea. this is also the only way to effectively control our borders and ensure that criminal organisations, including terrorists, do not take advantage of the mess that are hot spots and other points of arrival where there are no resources to do any serious checks on who is coming. it is also the only way for the european union not to continue to feed the business of human traffickers. this is a path which the governments sitting in the council have not wanted to explore. they are resisting because of a lack of political courage and strategic vision and, in particular, the importance of our synergy in supporting those who fight for human rights and good governance in africa. with the valletta summits we have deceived our citizens, we have failed to fulfil our legal and moral obligations towards refugees and africans and, above all, we have not contributed to european and global security.
member of the commission.– mr president, apologies again from federica mogherini, vice-president – as you know, she had to leave to get to the union for the mediterranean summit, the so-called barcelona process. i would like to thank you for this frank and dense debate on our partnership with africa and on the global partnership necessary to manage migratory and refugee flows in europe. we clearly need to take stock of the valletta process and, of course, of the talks in the g20 and pass to implementing our commitments, starting from action agreed in the valletta action plan. this is our task from here to the end of 2016, and we need to engage immediately with our partners to make things happen. let me take on a few of your questions. firstly, on readmission and return agreements. as my colleague the vice-president explained, this is an important part of our strategy, but it is only one part of our strategy. it cannot be decoupled from our other actions. the objective in the medium and long term is to make this phenomenon more manageable. this includes discouraging irregular flows, fighting the smugglers of human beings, working on the readmissions, but also working on the reintegration of returnees. only if those who get back can find a place in their own societies will they pass on the message that embarking on a dangerous journey towards europe is not worth the risk. at the same time, we need to work to strengthen and implement the legal channels we have already agreed on. but first of all we need to invest in the future of africa. the continent has a huge potential; our aid can help unleash such potential. the commission is doing its share, and we will keep pushing for national governments to follow up on their commitments. i would encourage you all to pass on this message that you have voiced here today, also back home. secondly, many of you rightly highlighted that saving lives must remain our focus in implementing valletta. i completely agree. protection is and remains a key element of our partnership with africa, both in terms of supporting the huge effort of african partners in offering humanitarian relief to refugees and the internally displaced in africa, and in terms of a wider and more consistent effort from the eu in terms of resettlement, in close cooperation with unhcr. yes, this is a crucial part of our effort to save lives and avoid hazardous journeys. another key component of our discussion in valletta has indeed been legal mobility: opening legal, regulated ways and facilitating mobility for bona fide travellers, starting from students, researchers, academics and business operators. it is part of our commitments in the action plan and we will make it happen. this is very important, as you know. as federica mogherini said in her introduction, helping africa’s growth and development is in our own interests. if we disinvested from the continent’s future, we would be hurting our own future. it would be against our values and our interests. this is not an idealistic approach, it is a very pragmatic approach. we need a strong cooperation with africa, which addresses europe’s interests and african interests at once. there is no ‘horse-trading’; we are redrawing our partnership on new bases. this includes how we deal with migration, but also our cooperation on peace and security, on development and on counter-terrorism. this leads me another point, raised by mr verhofstadt. yes, a new partnership with africa is not just about managing mobility, but also tackling the root causes of forced displacement. and yes, investment, industrialisation, opportunities for private actors to engage in a partnership for development in african remains very important. next, the security aspect of our cooperation. as many of you said, recent events only confirm that we cannot underestimate the threats we are facing. but let us also be clear on something: of course we must improve the checks on our external borders – it is obvious. but, as the attacks in paris demonstrate, the threat to our own security mostly originates within our own borders. on the external side, the call for more cooperation on security comes directly from our african partners. cooperating with africa on security is consistent with our interests: think of the work we can do to control their borders, to fight international criminal networks and to investigate terrorist suspects. finally, let me thank you once again for this debate and let me assure you that we count on the cooperation of this parliament and on its support in shaping not only migration but at the same time a new partnership with africa.
president of the council. mr president, one cannot expect everything from a summit, but i believe that the valletta summit has launched or perhaps relaunched a process and, as the commissioner has just said, a process towards a new partnership between europe and africa. the latter are natural partners and not supporting this partnership is ultimately doing ourselves a very bad service. we know that migration and development are two sides of the same coin and that it is not possible to achieve a better management of migration flows without involving the countries of origin and without also integrating mobility, that is to say legal migration, into such management. cooperation - we have spoken a lot about it - may indeed need to be re-thought and re-oriented. we need projects - we also talked about this afternoon - real projects that improve people's prospects, and projects in the deep regions of africa that benefit people, because those are the incentives that will convince people to stay there. but better managing migration also means working with african countries. there are examples of projects where this works. i remember very well, having been minister for immigration for a few years, that we once had a great problem of illegal immigration from senegal to the spanish islands. well, it is thanks to cooperation with the senegalese authorities and the spanish authorities that we have been able to bring this illegal migration under control to a greater or lesser extent. new forms of cooperation must therefore be found. of course, we must also honor our financial commitments. we have talked about a marshall plan for africa and probably that we will have to go there. it is true that resources must be available, but they must also be used more effectively. the last item will be on conflicts in africa. i believe that conflicts in africa produce migration, produce migrants, produce refugees, but we must never forget that the majority of refugees are in africa itself, and that sometimes we also need to help african countries to manage these refugee problems at home. next week there will be a meeting of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i believe that this will be a new opportunity to return to the common purpose of cooperation and partnership between african countries and europe. i think this is a great opportunity and an opportunity that we must of course seize.
in writing. the valletta summit was another step in the implementation of the conclusions of the last european council on migration: to build the walls of fortress europe higher and, in the end, to put barbed wire on top of those walls. this is the crude nature of eu policy in this area too. a policy that criminalizes immigration. who equates migrants with criminals. a selective and repressive policy, and for that very reason, yes, inhuman. because it denies those fleeing the chaos, poverty and war - which the eu helped to sow - their basic human rights, starting with the right to a better life. they used to call it "no-candy" expulsion. that is what it is all about, even if they now opt for euphemisms like "return" or "return". the european council's conclusions were: expel more migrants and do it more effectively. the valletta summit was a sordid attempt to impose this agenda on african countries, themselves victims of imperialist and neo-colonial impulses which generate inequality, hunger and misery from which migrants flee. the indigence of advanced values for so-called 'help and cooperation' speaks for itself, as does the 'conditionality', or let us be clear, the sybiline blackmail that conditions it to accept eu dictates.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as the head of the european parliament's observer mission, i had the privilege, together with other colleagues whose very useful participation i thank, of witnessing the most open and competitive elections the admirable people of myanmar have ever known, after 60 years of inter-ethnic armed conflict and 50 years of military dictatorship. but these were elections which took place in a legal, institutional and political context which does not correspond to the international standards required for democratic elections. the constitution imposed by the military junta in 2008 reserves 25% of seats in the chambers of the national assembly, regional assemblies and branches of government for the military, the national election commission had doubts about whether it would be independent, the accreditation of candidates and voter registration were subject to manipulation before, during and after the vote. not to mention the millions of citizens, particularly ethnic minorities, who are unregistered and unable to vote. the failure of the process is not to be overlooked, but progress must be noted, in particular the acceptance of defeat by the military-associated party, which is a sign of its decisive role in organising the transition, and the progress promised by the undisputed winner, aung san suu kyi's nld, which has promised to commit to change for democratic governance, dialogue, national reconciliation and peace. it will not be an easy process in a country where generals are installed in power and control the administration and the main natural resources, and where inter-ethnic conflict and contempt for minorities, especially the rohingya muslims, who, as has already been said, have been prevented from voting and being elected, is frankly entrenched, and it is very worrying that this tendency is being exploited by ultra-nationalist and xenophobic buddhist forces. the nld therefore has a tremendous responsibility here to counter the racist and discriminatory messages these forces have been conveying and to show that democratic governance and reconciliation will truly be inclusive and respectful of human rights. we, the european union, have a strategic interest in supporting the democratization process, monitoring the peace process, but above all in supporting civil society, including political parties and including the nld itself, because we absolutely must also call for a change in the constitution.
member of the commission. – madam president, as many members of parliament have noted, in bangladesh in the past two years restrictive legislative measures and policies have been adopted, or are in preparation, which could have a negative impact on freedom of expression and independent media and narrow the space for civil society. some examples of this which were mentioned include a 2013 amendment to the information technology and communication act and the draft cyber security act, as well as the national broadcast policy and the national online mass media policy. this year has been marked by tragic attacks on journalists and the brutal murders of secular bloggers and a publisher, while others are facing death threats. this is taking place against the backdrop of a volatile security situation, which includes an unprecedented attack on a shia procession in dhaka last month, as well as recent killings and attacks on foreign citizens. i extend my condolences to the family of cesare tavella, who was killed on 28 september. there was also the attack on father parolari last week. these issues were discussed at a meeting between high representative/vice—president federica mogherini and the bangladesh foreign minister in luxembourg on 5 november, as well as in a follow-up at the meeting of the eu—bangladesh joint commission on 11 november in dhaka. the eu has expressed its alarm at the deteriorating human rights and security situation. we have called on the government to protect bloggers and also to bring the instigators and perpetrators of attacks to justice and to prevent the repetition of such horrible acts. we have stated our concern about legislation and policies that can be used to restrict media and internet freedom, while calling on the government to defend and protect freedom of expression and other fundamental rights. upholding these rights is an integral part of what is so very clearly a top priority for all of us today, namely the fight against radicalisation. when we restrict the public space for dissenting voices, what we are in danger of doing is fuelling extremism. our cooperation, as set out in the eu—bangladesh cooperation agreement, is based on a mutual commitment to respecting human rights and democratic principles, respecting the principles of the international conventions on core human rights and labour rights – some speakers spoke about labour conditions – and also underpinning the scheme that provides bangladesh with quota—free and duty—free access to the eu market. the eu will therefore continue to raise freedom of expression in our dialogue with bangladesh as we remain committed to assisting bangladesh in carrying out the reforms necessary to strengthen democracy and governance. (applause)
madam president, we are going to vote on three urgent motions for resolutions and we are going to vote on them, in particular, by roll-call votes which are recorded. we are being denied the right to make written statements, to explain why we voted in a certain way, and this is unacceptable, so we ask that the rules be changed immediately so that a member can normally give his explanation of vote on these matters.
‒ the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation will be held in kenya in december. since its creation in 1995, the world trade organisation (wto) has played a significant role in creating a rules-based international trading system. since 2001, wto members have engaged in a broad round of multilateral trade negotiations, the doha round, which seeks to further liberalise trade, focusing on development, strengthening the capacity of developing countries to benefit from international trade, and helping them to fight poverty. in this respect, i welcome the trade facilitation agreement ratified on 5 october by the eu and i hope that this new ministerial conference will reach a political agreement that will advance the doha development agenda, while ensuring the principle of special and differential treatment. i agree with the need to accompany economic growth and sustainable development with appropriate accompanying macroeconomic and microeconomic policies, including budgetary transparency, tax equity, administrative simplification, education, training, social policies and institutional reforms.
‒ the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current imbalances in the trading system, putting the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular least developed countries, at the centre of the negotiations. open and fair multilateral trade is more restricted by various non-tariff barriers than by customs duties, which are being substantially phased out as globalisation advances. i therefore support the enduring value of multilateralism and an agenda for trade based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all and whose process is focused on development. i voted in favour.
‒ this resolution insists on the neoliberal vision of the doha development agenda (ddd) launched in 2001. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the 10th wto ministerial conference (cm10) will be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015 in nairobi. it will be the first wto ministerial conference ever held in an african country. it will show the further progress towards liberalization and deregulation of world trade. the crisis of the profitability of capital and its unprecedented degree of centralization and concentration of wealth leads it to seek new forms of exploitation, creating agreements of neo-colonial character, in which developed countries dictate what developing countries should or should not do in areas such as fiscal and tax policies, administrative organization, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, while exploiting their natural resources with irreversible consequences for the environment, and attacking progress and social achievements such as public services and the right to fair employment. we therefore reaffirm the urgent need to suspend the doha round. we obviously voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the current state of the doha development agenda with a view to the 10th wto ministerial conference. in view of the fact that the doha round aims to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and address current imbalances in the trading system, and given the proximity of the 10th wto ministerial conference to be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015, this motion for a resolution makes perfect sense. this motion for a resolution reinforces and defends an agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of those whose process is focused on development and also the need for structural reform of the wto.
‒ i advocate a multilateral, regulated and stable strategy for trade, recognising that bilateral, regional and plurilateral agreements also promote trade openness and economic development and support the multilateral system, provided they are compatible with world trade organisation rules. it is essential to advocate a trade agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all and with a development-centred process. trade liberalisation is an essential tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, which should be accompanied by macro- and microeconomic measures such as fiscal transparency, fiscal policies, tax equity, administrative simplification, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies. i recommend that the european union should continue to play a leading role with a view to achieving progress in the ongoing wto negotiations with a view to the full conclusion of the doha development round in the near term, as well as ensuring the participation of the least developed countries in world trade.
‒ the doha round negotiations, launched in 2001, aim to improve multilateral trade through rules agreed by consensus between the counterparts. these trade policies must be developed along two lines: the reduction of protectionist trade barriers which impede free trade, on the one hand, and the establishment of rules governing the maintenance of trade barriers, on the other. article 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) establishes the common commercial policy as an exclusive competence of the european union. accordingly, the european commission (ec) has been exercising its mandate by putting the needs and interests of developing countries at the centre of the negotiations. in this particular case, the principle of special and differential treatment must be an integral part of the negotiations, ensuring the sustainable economic growth and development of the least developed countries, the main victims of the imbalances in the trading system. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the doha development round, which is a report on the implementation of the doha development round.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which comes just before the 10th wto ministerial conference in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015. i fully support the need for greater liberalisation of world trade, based on a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules, which will make it possible to contribute to trade opportunities that promote the development and sustainable and sustained growth of the least developed countries, bearing in mind the principle of special and differential treatment, which must underlie this type of negotiation. this was the aim of the 2001 doha round, which should now be revised in order to achieve, in a more realistic way, the concrete and more balanced results sought for the world economy in trade terms. i am also in favour of structural reform of the wto to better ensure an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system that takes account of the heterogeneous roles and interests of economic operators, smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups. it is therefore important that all wto members study viable solutions to conclude the doha round negotiations and ratify the trade facilitation agreement swiftly, which will increase transparency and legal certainty, reduce administrative costs and reduce the duration of customs formalities.
‒ the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current imbalances in the trading system, putting the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular least developed countries (ldcs), at the centre of the negotiations. this objective is based on the conviction that a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules can contribute to fair and free trade, to the economic development of all continents and to poverty reduction. it is based on the fundamental premises of free trade and the presentation of supposedly neutral rules, which do not take into account the profound inequalities in the development of countries. in this sense, this model is the antithesis of the model we propose, based on relations of complementarity and respect for national sovereignty and their right to produce and to guarantee minimum levels of self-sufficiency.
‒ the 10th wto ministerial conference (cm10) will be held in kenya, from 15 to 18 december 2015, in nairobi. it will be the first wto ministerial conference ever held in an african country. it will show the further progress towards liberalization and deregulation of world trade. the crisis of the profitability of capital and its unprecedented degree of centralisation and concentration of wealth leads it to seek new forms of exploitation, creating agreements of a neo-colonial nature, in which the countries at the centre dictate what the countries at the periphery should or should not do in matters such as budgetary and tax policies, administrative organisation, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, while exploiting their natural resources with irreversible environmental consequences. we voted against it.
‒ the european parliament called on the andean countries to ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding roadmap on human, environmental and labour rights and for the colombian and peruvian governments to present action plans for sustainable development before parliament gives its approval. the government of ecuador has invested $40.8 billion in the social sector over the past eight years - in access to education, health care and social security - with specific programs for the most vulnerable groups, such as children, the elderly and people with disabilities. i therefore regard as very positive the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador of the protocol with a view to its accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, recognising the important benefits this will entail for ecuador's exports to the eu, especially given that the country no longer benefits from the eu's unilateral system of generalised preferences. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this resolution concerns the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded with colombia and peru. it is considered that this could allow ecuador to benefit from better disposal of its main exports to the eu, such as fisheries, bananas, cut flowers, coffee, cocoa, fruit and nuts. the reference to the policies pursued by the ecuadorian government: "for having invested more than 40 billion dollars in the social sector over the last eight years" and the encouragement to continue "its progressive policy of social and sustainable development" are to be welcomed. it reaffirms its support for 'all measures ... to combat poverty, inequalities, all forms of violence' and for measures 'to ensure the effective protection of the rights of workers and the most vulnerable persons and groups, such as children, women, minorities and indigenous peoples, in order to achieve social and economic development'. none of this erases the unmentionable process of blackmail to which ecuador was subjected by the eu to sign this agreement, which it resisted for several years. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the gatt agreement with the united states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru. it is extremely important that the eu should strengthen its trade relationship with colombia, peru and now ecuador. we must not forget that this region of the globe is turning increasingly to asia and the pacific. the efforts made by ecuador, namely the investment of $40.8 billion in the social sector over the last eight years, are commendable. it will also be important for the government of ecuador to take note of the action plans submitted by colombia and peru so that it can adopt similar measures. this is an opportunity for ecuador to improve the living conditions of its citizens in terms of human rights, labour and the environment.
‒ i agree that the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador with a view to its accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement will bring significant benefits for ecuador's exports to the european union, especially given that the country no longer benefits from the eu's unilateral system of generalised preferences. it is important to stress that the conclusion of this agreement will enhance and diversify trade and investment between both parties and will act as an important driver for economic and social development in ecuador, helping to alleviate poverty and reduce inequalities. however, i would point out that ecuador, like colombia and peru, is one of the world's leading producers of bananas and that it is therefore imperative that the commission monitor and ensure that the import volumes provided for in the stabilisation mechanism for bananas are respected. i believe that if imports increase abnormally, the commission should suspend the exemption from customs duties for bananas imported from these countries so as not to cause serious damage to the economies of producing regions in the european union, such as madeira.
‒ given that ecuador no longer benefits from the european union's (eu) system of generalised preferences, and considering that it is of paramount importance to establish alliances with fast-growing countries that hold similar positions in a region increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific, the european commission has presented a declaration to the european parliament on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia and peru. the european parliament therefore decided to close the debate by tabling a motion for a resolution which was put to the vote that day. the resolution confirms the expectations that the trade agreement and the bilateral clause contained in it correspond to the ambitions of the eu and ecuador. the commission's negotiations also took account of the impact of imports of bananas from ecuador on portugal's interests, and in particular on the economy of the autonomous region of madeira. the eu's producing regions, such as madeira, therefore enjoy the additional protection of this clause, which creates the legal basis for suspending the exemption from customs duties granted to ecuadorian bananas in the event of a disproportionate increase. i voted in favour.
‒ on 17 july 2014, the eu and ecuador concluded negotiations for the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, providing significant benefits to ecuador's economy, as ecuador no longer benefits from the eu's unilateral generalised system of preferences. while i voted in favour of this report, i share the concerns raised in the committee on international trade, of which i am a member, about the need for this country to adopt policies consistent with its wto commitments and also to comply with the action plans submitted on human, environmental and labour rights. i would also stress that ecuador is, together with colombia and peru, one of the world's leading producers of bananas, so it is essential that the commission plays a role in monitoring and verifying import volumes, along with an assessment of the direct and indirect impact of banana imports from these countries, or else a possible suspension of the exemption from customs duties should be used if there is a disproportionate increase in import volumes, causing serious damage to the economies of european producing countries, as is the case in portugal and spain.
‒ the text of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru corresponds to the ambitions of the eu and ecuador, and supposedly takes into account asymmetric relations in the market access proposals in favor of ecuador and includes the specific adaptations requested by ecuador. we fear that in the future, these good intentions will be overshadowed by the fundamental premises of free trade and the introduction of supposedly neutral rules which do not take account of the profound inequalities in the development of countries. we naturally have reservations about this.
‒ despite the fair reference to the social development policy of the ecuadorian government in this report, the european union is seeking to enforce its agenda of liberalizing world trade, in this case with particular interest in that region of the planet, having already signed agreements with colombia and peru on 26 june 2014. we abstained.
‒ one of the main concerns of european citizens is animal welfare: whether in terms of respect for the feelings and suffering of animals or from a sanitary and health perspective related to animal consumption. it is up to the european union to ensure that this is the case and to apply the highest standards of animal protection in its policies, especially since animal welfare is closely linked to public and animal health. sharing the demands expressed in this resolution, and in particular the need to develop an ambitious new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the period 2016-2020, building on the work carried out under the previous strategy. i believe that the rules on this matter should be clear and not give rise to divergent interpretations, despite their complexity, and that animal welfare should be promoted not only in the european area but also in third countries by requiring equivalent standards for imported animals and products, coupled with strict controls. the degree of civility in a society is measured by the way it treats its animals!
in writing. ‒ national animal welfare rules must not be contrary to the principles of the european single market, which is closely linked to public and animal health. with a body of existing legislation on this subject, i agree with the need to evaluate the current strategy and to devise a new ambitious strategy for the protection and welfare of animals, in order to continue the work done under the previous strategy and to ensure the continuity of a framework which allows for the adoption of high animal welfare standards in all member states. i would also like to highlight the efforts already made by farmers in the various member states in the field of animal welfare. i voted in favour.
in writing. the first major flaw in this resolution is the lack of recognition of the great contradiction between the increasingly liberal, market-oriented common agricultural policy, which pushes farmers towards intensive production models where profit is overridden by animal welfare and health, and all the scientific evidence that warns us of the need to defend ecological balances, animal welfare, biodiversity and public health. it could and should have gone further, criticizing and rejecting the productivism of the present cap and advocating a different agricultural policy. we believe that there is a need for a legal framework that reflects the concerns of the general public with regard to safeguarding animal welfare, but we have not followed all the amendments that have been tabled. before condemning or prohibiting more or less traditional practices, we should advocate the need to ensure that staff carry out inspections, and other specialised staff are on the ground supporting producers, such as public veterinarians and other animal health professionals. another of the failures is that there is not a proper focus on the reasons for the failure of the previous animal welfare strategy. despite its shortcomings and limitations, we recognize the positive aspects of this resolution.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rc b8-1278/2015 on a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. the resolution is the most comprehensive and the most effective demonstration of the eu's reality in terms of a new animal welfare strategy. the level of animal welfare in the eu is in fact one of the highest in the world. and you can't back out of it. to this end, the european commission should adapt or introduce policy instruments where it has clear scientific evidence demonstrating animal welfare problems. the european commission will also be responsible for closely monitoring the application of eu animal welfare legislation in the member states.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes should be approved by the european parliament and the council. given the complexity and the abundance of community animal welfare legislation, it is essential to redouble efforts to improve its enforcement and to ensure and monitor its enforcement in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. notwithstanding the above, the european strategy should not burden producers with administrative burdens, nor diminish the market stability and the resulting predictability that guarantees the high levels of investment in the sector. in view of the above, and with a view to animal welfare on the one hand and evidence-based and scientifically backed methods and practices on the other, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 189b of the ec treaty. it is worth noting that the level of well-being in the eu is one of the highest in the world and as such it is necessary to continue to preserve this prominent place that the union has been achieving over the last decades with its measures, which have allowed significant progress in this area. animal welfare and informed and conscious consumer choices are two factors of the utmost importance, which have been taken into account in the implementation of measures contributing to the sustainability of high european standards. i agree in particular with the rapporteur on the need to disseminate good practice and promote animal welfare in third countries with which the eu has trade agreements, in order to ensure that imported products follow equivalent lines of control and rigour. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ despite the positive results in the area of animal welfare resulting from the strategy implemented by the european commission in the period 2010-2015, there is still a wide field of opportunities for improvement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly managed. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. although i think that several of the amendments tabled are appropriate and deserve my support, i voted against or abstained in some cases, not because of their content, but because i think they are out of place in the context of the document that was put to the vote, which is nothing more than a resolution on general concepts for the purpose of working on a specific strategy for the next four years. the document under discussion and voting is a document which encourages the initiative of the commission and not the future strategy itself. many of the proposals will have their place in this report.
‒ the attacks on animal welfare are a consequence of an agriculture increasingly subject to the logic of profit in an increasingly competitive global market. the absurd levels of production intensity we have in the european union, whether in the case of piglets or intensive pig, poultry or rabbit production, are not the result of any whim on the part of our farmers. this is a contingency which obliges them to maximise animal productivity, otherwise they simply cannot guarantee the profitability of their farms. it is this contradiction that is unresolved. a contradiction between an increasingly liberal, market-oriented cap that pushes farmers towards productivist models where profit is put above animal welfare, and all the scientific evidence that warns us every day of the need to stop this madness. stop in the name of animal welfare, biodiversity and public health. it is therefore important to extend our agricultural equation to other social and environmental variables in the name of our planet's survival.
‒ the first major flaw in this resolution is the lack of recognition of the great contradiction between the increasingly liberal, market-oriented common agricultural policy, which pushes farmers towards intensive production models where profit overrides animal welfare and health, and all the scientific evidence that warns us of the need to defend ecological balances, animal welfare, biodiversity and public health. it could and should have gone further, criticizing and rejecting the productivism of the present cap and advocating a different agricultural policy. we believe that there is a need for a legal framework which reflects the concerns of the general public with regard to the protection of animal welfare, but we have not followed all the amendments that have been tabled. despite its shortcomings and limitations, we recognize the positive aspects of this resolution.
‒ according to un estimates, one billion children, 250 million of them under the age of five, live in conflict-affected areas, and are denied their fundamental right to education. education is a fundamental human right and a right that goes to all children. education is essential for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights. at a time when europe is facing the refugee crisis, the commission and the member states should support refugee students and create 'education corridors' for students from countries in conflict. i agree and support the announcement by the commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management to dedicate 4% of the eu humanitarian aid budget to the education of children in emergency situations by 2019. in the face of the increase in humanitarian crises, the international community should consider education as a central element of its humanitarian response, since education is a catalyst, capable of improving the effectiveness of the overall response and contributing to the medium- and long-term development of the affected populations.
‒ according to un estimates, one billion children, 250 million of them under the age of five, live in conflict-affected areas and are denied their fundamental right to education; some 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are particularly affected by emergencies and protracted crises, putting them at risk of disrupting their schooling, and some 37 million children of primary and lower secondary school age are out of school in crisis-affected countries. worldwide, there are nearly 10 million child refugees and about 19 million children who have been displaced within their own country as a result of conflict. in terms of funding, $8 billion a year is needed to provide educational support for children affected by emergencies, with the contribution to education in emergencies by affected governments leaving a total funding shortfall of $4.8 billion. to achieve this, it is necessary to increase funding for humanitarian and development aid and for fragile states to increase public expenditure on education. i voted in favour.
‒ the un estimates that one billion children live in conflict-affected areas. a quarter of these children are under five years old and are denied the right to education. while welcoming the call for member states to contribute to the increase of humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergency situations to 4% of the humanitarian aid provided for in the eu budget, we argue that these funds should be channelled towards promoting universal access to free, quality public education at all levels of education. only an education policy based on these premises will be able to reverse the vicious circle of poverty that plagues the areas of the planet most affected by emergencies and protracted crises. many of these situations are a painful demonstration of the inhuman, exploitative and aggressive character of the capitalist system and have their causes and culprits: the processes of destabilization in various parts of the globe and the imperialist wars of aggression, the policy of economic domination and the plundering of natural resources. we therefore condemn the fact that the eu and its member states' action in the eu framework is guided by charity rather than solidarity, which serves as a palliative rather than an antidote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and prolonged crises. the eu must continue to lead by example in this area. the announcement by the commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management that he would devote 4% of the eu humanitarian aid budget to the education of children in emergency situations by 2019 was extremely important. we must not forget that there are almost 10 million child refugees in the world and that some 19 million children have been displaced within their own country as a result of conflict.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental human right of all children and is essential for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights. it should be stressed that education is at the heart of responsible citizenship and can transform a society and contribute to social, economic, political and gender equality. the incheon declaration notes with concern that conflicts, natural disasters and other crises continue to hamper education and development. it therefore commits to developing more inclusive, responsive and resilient education systems, and stresses that education must be delivered in safe, welcoming and non-violent learning environments. i support education as a key to the reconstruction of post-conflict societies, as training will help to improve people's life prospects and break the cycle of poverty. i support and support this proposal, considering that the eu should develop, through cooperation with different international organisations, specific reception programmes for children affected by emergency situations and protracted crises.
in writing. the motion for a resolution follows the oral question to the european commission by mrs linda mcavan, member of the european parliament, on behalf of the committee on development, on concrete measures to respond adequately to educational needs in emergency situations. today, one billion children live in conflict-affected areas, being denied their basic right to education - one that governments have pledged to uphold under the united nations convention. the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the relevant legislation in the member states. in this context, the commission considers that, without prejudice to material security and the welfare of children, education should also be included in humanitarian aid programmes, this time leveraged by an increase in humanitarian funding sufficient to respond to emergency situations. in view of the above deliberations, i have voted in favour.
‒ the numbers of children and young adolescents who find themselves in vulnerable situations because of conflicts in their home countries are increasingly significant and alarming. the constant state of risk to which these young people are exposed has led many families to leave their countries and head towards europe in search of a better future. however, many of them remain in refugee camps or lack the means to escape the national conflicts they face on a daily basis. action is therefore needed to ensure the safety and future of these children who end up as victims of an unstable system that does not offer them the educational conditions to which every child is entitled under the united nations convention on the rights of the child. i therefore believe that the eu's work to provide and secure more resources for the education of refugee children and young people is important, since education is a fundamental pillar in the continuation of a better, capable, secure and whole society in its most basic essence. for the reasons stated above, i welcome and vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ the un estimates that one billion children live in conflict-affected areas, a quarter of whom are under five years old and are denied the right to education. it is also estimated that 65 million children are affected by emergencies and protracted crises and that approximately 37 million children of primary and lower secondary school age are not in school. while welcoming the call for member states to contribute to the increase of humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergency situations to 4% of the humanitarian aid provided for in the eu budget, we argue that these funds should be channelled towards promoting universal access to free, quality public education at all levels of education. only an education policy based on these premises will be able to reverse the vicious circle of poverty that plagues the areas of the world most affected by emergencies and protracted crises.
‒ the un estimates that one billion children live in conflict-affected areas. many of these situations are a painful demonstration of the inhuman, exploitative and aggressive character of the capitalist system and have their causes and culprits: the processes of destabilization in various parts of the globe and the imperialist wars of aggression, the policy of economic domination and the plundering of natural resources. we therefore condemn the fact that the eu and its member states' action in the eu framework is guided by charity rather than solidarity, which serves as a palliative rather than an antidote.
‒ the european parliament recognises the importance of significant steps taken by the eu institutions towards simplification, such as the simplification agenda for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. however, the commission should present detailed simplification guidelines in order to raise awareness among member states and their regions of their task of eliminating or at least significantly reducing the administrative burden and over-regulation generated at national and local level in public procurement processes, selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities. i voted in favour.
‒ this motion for a resolution follows an oral question on the same subject at the second plenary session in october. it recognises the importance of what has already been done in simplifying the procedures for preparing applications, presenting results and the various stages of project evaluation in the implementation of the directives for such simplification. the issue of administrative simplification and capacity to meet the requirements associated with the eu structural and cohesion funds is crucial. in many areas, such as portugal, the existing rules and the bureaucratic complexity involved in the mobilisation of eu funds in general (cohesion is unfortunately not an exception) constitute an obstacle to the eligibility of projects and consequently determine, in practice, the lack of access to cohesion funds. this question particularly affects grassroots associations, non-governmental organisations, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and local authorities. in this sense, further simplification will result in a greater potential for access to funds by these agents. the report stresses that simplification should be balanced with the prevention and detection of irregularities, i.e. it safeguards that facilitation does not mean laxity, which could benefit fraudulent proceedings. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - towards simplification and performance orientation in the framework of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. it is essential that the eu institutions move towards simplification, such as the simplification agenda for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the creation of a high level group of independent experts on the follow-up to simplification for beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds, the revised financial regulation and the common provisions regulation. the european commission should raise awareness among member states and their regions to make efforts to eliminate or substantially reduce the administrative burden and excessive regulation created at national and local level in public procurement processes, selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities. it will also be important for the commission to establish a permanent dialogue with the european parliament, the committee of the regions and other stakeholders on all aspects of this simplification process.
‒ despite the reform of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, which addresses simplification methods, implementation, management, reporting and controls for the esi funds, obstacles still remain for beneficiaries and managing authorities, in particular for those with less administrative and financial capacity. i agree that the commission should present guidelines on simplification, sensitising member states to drastically reduce or eliminate the administrative burden and excessive regulation in public procurement procedures, selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities. i believe that the commission should provide guidance on how to streamline and simplify monitoring, monitoring and reporting activities. at the same time, it should, in coordination with the member states, outline a simple vision of the data and information requirements imposed on beneficiaries in the application process and in the reporting of information on eu funds under shared management, and encourage the sharing of good practices. i believe that the simplification of the rules governing financial instruments within the framework of the esi funds should meet the real needs of the beneficiaries and thus improve their absorption and application.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. it is also essential to raise awareness among member states and their regions of the need to eliminate or substantially reduce the administrative burden of applying for structural fund funding, public procurement or selection of proposals, given the obstacles that such bureaucratic bottlenecks represent in the already heavy administrative machinery of the member states. in this sense, i am fully in favour of this motion for a resolution which calls for further simplification and a better performance orientation in the framework of cohesion policy 2014-2020.
‒ following an oral question at the second october part-session, this report aims to acknowledge the importance of what has already been done in simplifying the procedures for preparing applications, presenting results and the various stages of project evaluation in the implementation of the directives for such simplification. the report stresses that simplification should be balanced against the prevention and detection of irregularities, i.e. it safeguards that facilitation does not mean laxity, which could benefit fraudulent proceedings. this issue mainly affects grassroots associations and ngos, smes and municipalities. the issue of administrative simplification and capacity to meet the requirements associated with the eu structural and cohesion funds is, for many realities, an impediment to the eligibility of projects and, consequently, to the lack of access to the cohesion funds. in this sense, further simplification will result in a greater potential for access to funds by these agents.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the issue of administrative simplification and capacity to meet the requirements associated with the eu structural and cohesion funds are, for many realities, an impediment to the eligibility of projects and, consequently, to the lack of access to the cohesion funds. this issue mainly affects grassroots associations and ngos, smes and municipalities. in this sense, further simplification will result in a greater potential for access to funds by these agents. we voted yes.
in writing. if we ask which of the us allies - from france to israel, from the uk to the gulf dictatorships - has played the central role in the operation of destabilization and aggression against syria and its people over the past few years, turkey certainly takes the top spot. from the very beginning, turkey - a nato member - has actively intervened in the situation in syria, in clear disregard of international law. turkey has been used as a base and support for the various armed groups comprising thousands of mercenaries that have been charged with the objective of destroying the syrian state, plundering its resources and the heritage of its people. a gigantic pillage which, by fuelling all kinds of trafficking and having a receiver in turkey, is one of the sources of funding for the terrorists supported and armed by imperialism, which now claims to want to fight them. these are aspects which have been in the background of this debate and which the main political groups have understandably tried to avoid. a complicit silence. the conclusions of the eu-turkey summit are in line with the eu's foreign and migration policies, which the summit sought to operationalize: reactionary, inhumane, unacceptable.
madam vice-president, commissioner, the successive conflicts and global crises of recent times have not been such as to generate hope and confidence in the future. and this is yet another reason to underline the importance of the high-level political consensus that is beginning to be drawn in paris. a political consensus not just to mitigate global warming, but to change behaviors and models of economic and social management. the message from paris is very similar to the message of this circular economy package. we need to put people and the planet at the centre of the sustainable development process. and this package responds to the challenges of efficient use of resources throughout their transformation and use cycle, and in doing so will help to solve key issues such as growth, the creation of quality jobs, the reduction of inequalities, the preservation of the oceans, or the protection of biodiversity. we have reason for hope and optimism. we cannot allow bureaucracy and implementation failures to be the black beasts of such an important strategy again. if citizens, businesses and institutions take this path as their own, we will be on the right track.
madam president, commissioner vella, one of the objectives of implementing and strengthening the circular economy is to reduce the amount of waste that flows into the seas. the impact of plastic waste at sea is extremely serious, holistic and perennial and is identified by several international bodies and is one of the priorities of the g7. plastics and especially microplastics are a problem for the physical, chemical and molecular contamination of marine organisms' food chains. plastics contain persistent organic pollutants that contaminate the animals that ingest them and cause hormonal problems that lead to changes in growth and reproduction rates. acting as hormone disruptors, they have been responsible for reproductive failures in marine mammals, fish and birds to name just three examples. one of the solutions to minimize this problem is to provide the tools associated with the circular economy, thus ensuring at least not the solution but the urgent mitigation of the problem. the circular economy is inevitable, it's not enough, but it can be a step forward.
in writing. the new circular economy package must go far beyond the idea of simply improving our waste management. it must go further and tackle the fundamental problem head-on, answering the question: why do we generate so much waste? the expected increase in the municipal recycling rate to 70% and other waste-related measures are all welcome, but we cannot afford to lose another opportunity to raise awareness of the need for a real change in our consumption patterns and in the management of our resources. and if we really want to limit our consumption, then we have to start measuring the resources we use. we need to develop indicators of the environmental footprint of materials, water, land and greenhouse gases. unfortunately, this doesn't seem to be starting out well. so far the european commission does not seem to be listening to these calls and, without a paradigm shift, this package will be more dust in the eyes of the citizens.
in writing. i congratulate ms metsola and ms ska keller on the excellent work they have done following the timely initiative of the ombudsman. since its creation, frontex has been developing and gaining an increasingly essential role in the control of external borders. today it is even more evident that we need a frontex that is up to the challenges we face: able to support member states with the highest migratory pressure and to take a leading role in return operations. we want to ensure that in the future we are prepared for crises like this, as we have so often asked in this parliament. the evolution of the agency, however, has been accompanied - and rightly so! - by greater scrutiny and transparency on the part of frontex, especially in respect of fundamental rights. it is the other side of the coin of an enlargement of powers. only in dictatorships are police forces not subject to controls in respect of the rights of citizens. the mechanism we are discussing today, and i hope we will adopt it, is therefore becoming even more acute: it is a step in the right direction, but it is necessary in view of the future role of the agency. i hope, therefore, that the european commission's proposal will already reflect this position of the european parliament.
madam president, i believe that there is a need to promote inclusive urban mobility policies by encouraging the use of public transport and also of less polluting transport. in fact, i believe that new forms of mobility supported by collaborative economy models should also be promoted. however, there is one point i would like to leave out and which i could not leave out, namely that i do not agree with the levies that are being imposed on the creation of cycle paths and the imposition of the use of bicycles. i cannot agree either to the elimination of cars in cities when many of these cities still have no alternative solutions. we need a balanced urban policy, which does not discriminate between any type of transport, any mode of transport and, above all, which respects the principle of subsidiarity, because i believe and believe that the implementation of mobility policies is the exclusive responsibility of the municipalities and we cannot apply one measure to all ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this european year for development has not changed the world. you wouldn't expect me to! but it was worth it! it has helped raise public awareness, stimulated debate and, above all, has driven forward projects, partnerships and decisions that are moving in the right direction, including at major international conferences such as addis ababa and new york. but nothing we've done is a guarantee of success. the future of development policy will be judged by the implementation of commitments. and when we see signs of a lack of political will and even a decline in official development assistance, we have every reason to be concerned and, above all, to be vigilant. it is to this vigilance that we must now also appeal from the european commission and from all those who take their seats in this european parliament.
mr president, six months after we discussed them, we are following up many of the points raised, such as the concern and condemnation of the expressed intentions to reinstate the death penalty or the discrimination and persecution of immigration, alongside the walls of shame in hungary, but also in the member states of the european union, which are beginning to be replicated. we cannot accept, however, that - on the pretext of the humanitarian crisis, of authoritarian and anti-democratic abuses - in any country there should be a situation where democracy is being ignored and interference is being formalized. we are opposed to the unacceptable set of proposals that were and are being put forward, in particular the unacceptable proposal to create a genuine ranking of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, partly because we do not recognise the legitimacy of the european union or the european commission to do so, because we know that their concept of democracy differs according to their interests. this would be a commission tool on member states, the consequences of which can only result in more intervention and interference.
mr president, two thirds of the world's known oil reserves are in the middle east, but the dependence of this area is unacceptable from a geostrategic point of view in the eyes of the imperial powers. thus, major multinational oil companies are clearly involved in the search for new oil exploration on the african continent. in 2010, the congolese government signed a contract for oil exploration in areas covering 85% of the area of the virunga national park, despite congolese law banning any exploration in this park which is considered a unesco world heritage site. so this national park is now under threat, particularly from concessions given to multinationals. in respect of the sovereignty of all the countries involved, and in particular of the democratic republic of the congo, it is our duty to seek to ensure that policies for the exploitation of resources are in the service of the local populations and not in the service of the accumulation of profits by multinationals who do not look to any means to achieve their ends.
mr president, the launch of another cycle of the european semester shows that the european union is still blind to reality. a reality marked by low public and private investment, unemployment and growing social inequalities. what are these rules where most countries remain outside the absurd limits of the stability pact and the budget treaty, which were set in the name of a clear strategy aimed at imposing a neoliberal economic model tailored to the interests of the big economic and financial groups? how is it possible to have a central bank pouring billions of euros directly into the coffers of the financial system, while preventing governments from promoting the necessary public investment, or socially coming to the aid of the economic crisis that the european union has been mired in for almost a decade? the continuation of the same hypocritical recipe is the continuation of a path which must be followed by the workers' struggle for the good of europe and its inhabitants.
in writing. ‒ as we said when voting on the taxe report in plenary, we have always said that the free movement of capital would lead to an increase in tax evasion and avoidance and facilitate the transfer of profits, which would harm public coffers. this report has been guilty of not making public the tax decisions that were taken in advance, of not quantifying the size of these decisions, their impact on the tax revenues of the different member states and of being soft on those who are politically responsible for these decisions. the luxleaks and taxe investigations showed that while governments imposed draconian "austerity" programs on workers and the people, they designed tax rulings and legislation that allowed multinationals to minimize their tax rate and encouraged them to shift profits. but it's evidence that much remains to be investigated and ascertained. many obstacles have been removed to the action of this committee, starting with some of those targeted in the scandal, notably the current president of the european commission. despite the known limitations, it was necessary for these reasons to extend the activities of this committee. the major groups in this parliament (epp and s&d) have done everything to prevent it. only public pressure has prevented them from blocking this extension, which our group has proposed.
‒ the main priorities of tax policy at eu level are: the elimination of tax obstacles to crossborder economic activity, the fight against harmful tax competition, the promotion of greater cooperation between tax administrations in the control and fight against fraud. i voted in favour of the decision to set up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe 2) to examine the application by a member state or the commission of state aid law and union tax law in relation to tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect taken by member states, where such practices constitute an act of a member state or the commission, and on harmful corporate tax practices and schemes at european and international level. its task is to monitor and monitor the implementation of the recommendations of the taxe 1 committee report.
‒ in accordance with this decision, the european parliament approved the establishment of the successor to the special committee on early determination and other measures of a similar nature or effect, giving it a new six-month mandate, starting on 2 december. this new special committee will build on the work of the previous special committee on early termination orders and other measures of a similar nature or effect, set up on 12 february 2015, the results of which were presented in the report adopted in plenary on 25 november 2015. in this regard, it will be responsible, inter alia, for: monitoring the implementation by member states and the european institutions of the recommendations contained in the above resolution of 25 november 2015; monitoring the work being carried out in this area by international institutions, including the oecd and the g20; assessing the commission's performance in investigating state aid and ensuring the proper implementation of cooperation obligations in the field of taxation; assessing the compliance of member states with obligations under european tax legislation; and analysing aggressive planning practices by companies. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision setting up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe2), as i considered it important to examine and monitor such harmful decisions, practices and corporate taxation schemes at european and international level, as well as to examine existing aid schemes in the member states and their compliance with the union's rules on state aid and other eu tax law. i also endorse the tasks assigned to the taxe 2 committee as listed in the report and stress the fact that this committee 'will fully build on and complement the work carried out by the taxe 1 special committee, in particular to address outstanding issues highlighted in its resolution of 25/11/2015' - as can be read in the text of the report. i also consider the numerical composition (45 members) of the taxe 1 special committee and the duration of its mandate (six months), which started on 2 december 2015, to be appropriate. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour.
‒ this process confirms the nature of the current european integration process, which is designed to favour large multinational companies. it also confirms the link between the main political families in parliament and the interests of these big companies which are and will continue to be the ones to benefit most from the liberalisation of the economy and from the weakening of the ability of national states to control their economies. our work in the committee is therefore part of the building of another europe which is oriented towards the interests of the people and the workers.
in writing. the taxe commission's investigations showed that while governments imposed violent "austerity" programs on workers and the people, they designed tax rulings and legislation that allowed multinationals to evade paying taxes. it's evidence that much remains to be investigated and ascertained. many obstacles have been removed to the action of this committee, starting with some of those targeted in the scandal, notably the current president of the european commission. despite the known limitations, it was necessary for these reasons to extend the activities of this committee. the major groups in this parliament (epp and s&d) have done everything to prevent it. only public pressure has prevented them from blocking this extension, which our group has proposed. it is important now that the members of the new committee take on the need to bring forward the complete clarification of all that remains obscure and uncertain. it is necessary that some of those responsible and involved - such as the current president of the european commission - should be called back to the committee and not hesitate this time to provide all the explanations. but we have no illusions. the commission's composition means that its extension will have served more to calm the pressure of public opinion than to go deeper into its investigative work.
‒ i have voted in favour of the proposal from the conference of presidents on the composition of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the committee is composed of 45 meps.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of the decision on the establishment of a new ad hoc committee on rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, to complete the work of the previous ad hoc committee on rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, set up on 12 february 2015, i voted in favour of this decision, with regard to the list of 45 members of the ad hoc committee.
‒ i agree with the appointment of members proposed by the conference of presidents.
‒ this process confirms the nature of the current european integration process, which is designed to favour large multinational companies. it also confirms the link between the main political families in parliament and the interests of these big companies which are and will continue to be the ones to benefit most from the liberalisation of the economy and from the weakening of the ability of national states to control their economies. our work in the committee is therefore part of the building of another europe which is oriented towards the interests of the people and the workers.
‒ the european union and the principality of liechtenstein have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this is an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and evasion. under the agreement, the eu and the principality of liechtenstein will exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party as of 2017. i agree and express my full support for the agreement reached.
in writing. ‒ directive 2003/48/ec is limited to the taxation of savings income in the form of interest on loans, excluding matters relating to the taxation of pensions and insurance benefits. the agreement signed this year on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which aims to improve international tax cooperation, is a step in the right direction in the ongoing efforts to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. however, the report falls short of what is needed and is flawed in several respects, such as: (a) the lack of efforts to achieve absolute transparency and full disclosure of information between the parties and the presence of legal constraints in the agreement; (b) the existence of an exemption from disclosure of information, which is an overly broad and ambiguous conditionality; (c) conditions for the exchange of information based on prior approval by the competent authorities. moreover, as was the case with the eu-switzerland agreement, the european parliament was not consulted until after the agreement had been ratified, and it was practically impossible to introduce any improvements. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein on the exchange of information on financial accounts. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion should be listed as one of the priorities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of liechtenstein signed an agreement on 28 october 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information with the aim of improving tax cooperation and the enforcement of international tax obligations. this agreement provides that the european union and the principality of liechtenstein shall exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party as from 2017. the purpose of this agreement is to prevent a taxpayer from attempting to conceal the capital corresponding to income or assets in respect of which taxes have not been paid. in advocating greater cooperation, transparency and the sharing of tax information with the aim of reducing fraud and evasion, this report and the approval of the agreement deserve my vote in favour.
‒ this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament approves the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein, adapting it to the enhanced measures equivalent to the eu directive, updated in march 2014. the amendments to the protocol provide that, in the context of exchanges of information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party, the exchange of information is to be facilitated not only on income such as interest and dividends but also on account balances and the proceeds of the sale of financial assets. the agreement allows for the prevention of situations where a taxpayer tries to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid, and the prevention of tax evasion limits the negative consequences for economic development and therefore the negative impact on the achievement of solidarity and prosperity as laid down in the letter of the treaties. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in october 2015, the eu and liechtenstein agreed to automatically exchange financial account information to improve tax cooperation and enable compliance with international tax obligations. the main objective of this agreement is to combat tax fraud and evasion, also updating the 2004 agreement which allowed this country to apply measures similar to those provided for in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. one of the improvements implemented concerns the possibility of automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party from 2017, thus helping to prevent potential situations of taxpayers concealing financial capital corresponding to income or assets on which taxes have not been paid. in addition, it is also envisaged that the global standards (established in 2014 by the oecd) regarding the requirement for automatic exchange of information on financial accounts will be followed. these reinforcement measures to the equivalents of the eu directive updated in march 2014 will make for a fairer and more transparent system, and i therefore supported this report by voting in favour.
‒ the agreement can represent an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensured that the principality of liechtenstein would apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the eu and the principality of liechtenstein will thus exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party as from 2017. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. unfortunately, history shows that it is not for lack of agreements or regulations that tax fraud and evasion continue to exist. it is important to monitor compliance with this agreement, avoiding the usual traps of these agreements which often serve only to mislead public opinion.
‒ the agreement can represent an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensured that the principality of liechtenstein would apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu savings tax directive. the eu and the principality of liechtenstein will thus exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party as from 2017. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. it is important to monitor compliance with this agreement, avoiding the usual traps of these agreements which often serve only to mislead public opinion. we abstained.
‒ the european agency for the management of external borders (frontex) should set up a mechanism capable of dealing with individual complaints of alleged violations of fundamental rights occurring during its operations or in joint operations with third countries. the eu frontex regulation requires the agency to ensure full respect for the fundamental rights and the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. i also agree with the various recommendations on the structure of the complaints mechanism, the submission and admissibility of complaints and the handling of complaints concerning the conduct of guest officers under the authority of a member state but wearing the frontex badge.
in writing. this report follows the special report of the european ombudsman following the inquiry into the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). in the face of what has become a flagrant failure, it is intended to set up a system for reporting incidents and drawing up codes of conduct, as well as the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and a fundamental rights officer. it also establishes a mechanism for complaints (which did not exist) concerning breaches of fundamental rights, including the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. the first point to be made is the unequivocal recognition of the human rights violations by frontex. this agency is increasingly becoming a supranational police force which is undermining the territorial sovereignty of the member states and acts as a repressive force against defenceless citizens, in particular refugees and asylum seekers from north africa and the middle east, who arrive in europe every day and suffer its repulsive xenophobic effects. complaints come and go. the mechanism now proposed does not meet, by any means, the requirements.
in writing. ‒ firstly, i welcome the special report by the european ombudsman following the own-initiative inquiry into frontex. the european ombudsman recommended to frontex that a mechanism should be established to deal with complaints about violations of fundamental rights in all joint operations with the frontex chancellor. the mechanism should receive complaints from persons who claim to have been personally affected or who wish to complain for reasons of public interest. this function could be assigned to the fundamental rights officer, who would be provided with the resources necessary for the exercise of this function. the eu frontex regulation requires the agency to ensure full respect for fundamental rights and the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, and frontex should therefore set up an appropriate complaints mechanism. i share the rapporteur's view that the mechanism for dealing with individual complaints must be efficient and transparent. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union should ensure full respect for the fundamental rights and the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. it should be noted that frontex's mission is to ensure the effective implementation of the common rules on the control and surveillance of the external borders as regards fundamental rights and that these actions therefore have human rights implications. i agree with the recommendation of the european ombudsman that frontex should deal with each individual complaint concerning violations of fundamental rights in the course of its operations and should provide appropriate administrative support to this end. this individual complaint mechanism will provide individuals with an opportunity to exercise their right to an effective remedy in the event of a breach of fundamental rights, and will have as a corollary the increase of transparency and respect for fundamental rights. the implementation of this right should be the subject of an information campaign, disseminated in the official languages of the eu and in languages that asylum seekers and migrants understand or are reasonably supposed to understand.
‒ following the own-initiative inquiry into the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union (frontex), the european ombudsman published a special report which insisted on the implementation of an individual complaint mechanism. the ombudsman advocates the creation of an incident reporting system and the development of codes of conduct, as well as the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and a fundamental rights officer. these mechanisms are all the more relevant in the context of frontex's operational cooperation with the competent authorities of the partner countries, which is carried out through operational agreements which are not legally binding and do not fall within the scope of international law. considering that frontex, like any eu body or agency, must observe the charter of fundamental rights in the exercise of its activities, and that this obligation is enshrined in the tfeu, and considering further that the implementation of the mechanism proposed by the ombudsman is the indispensable guarantee of frontex's compliance with fundamental rights obligations, i voted in favour of the report.
‒ following a report by the european ombudsman published in 2013, which arose from the inquiry into the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex), a set of 13 recommendations is proposed on the need to promote greater respect for fundamental rights, including through the creation of an incident reporting mechanism, the development of codes of conduct, the creation of an advisory forum and a fundamental rights officer. i support the report by mrs metsola and mr keller on the whole, stressing the need for the agency to adopt mechanisms to ensure the effective enforcement of fundamental rights, thus promoting greater transparency in frontex's working arrangements with third countries, over which parliament has no democratic control. these are positive measures which respond to the current pressure and humanitarian and legal challenges currently at the eu's external borders, and they carry a set of proposals which i consider necessary for frontex's fundamental rights strategy, and as such i believe they should be included in the next revision of its rules of procedure.
‒ this report aims to establish an incident reporting system and codes of conduct, as well as the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and a fundamental rights officer. it also establishes a complaints mechanism for breaches of fundamental rights, including the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. the first point to be made in this document is the unequivocal recognition of the human rights violations by frontex. this agency is increasingly becoming a supranational police force which is undermining the territorial sovereignty of the member states and acts as a repressive force against citizens, in particular refugees and asylum seekers from north africa and the middle east, who arrive in europe every day and suffer its repulsive xenophobic effects.
in writing. this report follows the european ombudsman's special report following the investigation oi/5/2012/beh mhz into frontex, which aims to establish an incident reporting system and codes of conduct, and establishes a complaint mechanism for violations of fundamental rights, including the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. the first point to be made in this document is the unequivocal recognition of the human rights violations by frontex. this agency is increasingly becoming a supranational police force which is undermining the territorial sovereignty of the member states and acts as a repressive force against citizens, in particular refugees and asylum seekers from north africa and the middle east, who arrive in europe every day and are subjected to a repulsive xenophobic attitude. we are advocating the abolition of frontex and the whole repressive system set up by the eu to control the external borders. however, in the current situation it will be important to have at least a complaints mechanism for violations of fundamental rights. we abstained.
‒ the concept of urban mobility is highly relevant and topical today. soon, 80% of europe's citizens will live in cities, which is a paradigm shift in terms of accessibility and mobility for europe's citizens, and places urban centres in front of social, quality of life and sustainable development challenges. i believe that it is urgent to establish sustainable urban mobility plans that include all citizens, in particular people with reduced mobility, and that involve reducing the dependency on cars in cities, which is responsible for serious health, ecological and congestion problems, and redesigning the way we move around in cities (both in transporting people and goods). i share the concerns raised in the delli report and the suggestions for solutions put forward by the committee on transport and tourism.
in writing. ‒ soon, 80% of europe's citizens will live in cities. mobility should therefore promote access for all, including persons with reduced mobility, to school, work, culture, recreation and healthcare. the dependence on the car and its corollary, road congestion, whose cost to all european cities is estimated at €80 billion, makes city dwellers prisoners of a mobility supported rather than chosen. while certain sectors, such as agriculture and industry, have reduced their greenhouse gas emissions, the transport sector shows an increase of 30% since 1990. while the major cities of the european union are living at the peak of pollution, some 400 000 premature deaths are caused annually by particulate matter emitted by the european car fleet. it is also recorded that 38% of road deaths occur in urban areas. to this end, the european union should set ambitious targets so that member states and regional and local authorities can jointly implement this new model of sustainable urban mobility, giving priority to electric mobility plans, non-polluting modes of transport: electric, cable cars, bicycles and car sharing.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of developing sustainable urban mobility policies that do not inhibit the development of cities, regions and countries, while ensuring the reduction of the environmental impacts of the transport sector, better urban planning, improved health indicators and social inclusion. relevant goals. the impact of transport on societies (especially urban ones, which by 2050 will comprise 85% of the eu population) is significant. the organisation of urban mobility gives priority to the car 50% of citizens in the eu use their own car on a daily basis, while only 16% use public transport and 12% use the bicycle. the transport sector is thus the only one that has not reduced its greenhouse gas emissions. the report emphasises the promotion of quality and affordable public transport (including as a means of boosting urban economies and helping to combat poverty and social exclusion), the need to promote mobility plans, the use of alternative fuels, the improvement of pollution situations and their impact on human health (air pollutant emissions and noise pollution) and the reduction of accidents. a 'bottom-up' approach is advocated, as opposed to the imposition of guidelines by the european institutions. despite some shortcomings, we voted in favour.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the proposal on sustainable urban mobility. mobility is a right of all citizens. if we consider that in the near future some 80% of european citizens will live in cities, it is extremely important that there is a reorientation of urban mobility, especially with regard to more sustainable modes of transport. the protection of the climate, health, the environment, well-being and safety are 21st century challenges that the eu must ensure. global warming requires a reversal of behavior. it is up to the eu to send a clear signal that combating this phenomenon is not just rhetoric. the 2030 emissions targets have to be met.
‒ i voted in favour because i understand that the significant increase in urban population requires global planning measures.
in writing. ‒ the importance of sustainable mobility - especially urban mobility - is increasingly a topic on the table and is currently being widely debated at global level, and therefore also in european terms. according to statistics, it is estimated that by 2050 some 82% of citizens will live in urban areas, thus posing new social and urban planning challenges, sustainable development and the quality of life in cities. therefore, to achieve the objective of creating a new model of sustainable urban development, it is necessary to invest in sound, high-quality urban mobility projects that serve the general interest. in this respect, and in this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, i stress the importance of creating long-term sustainable urban mobility plans that incorporate information technologies, allow for the creation of appropriate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens and take into account the special needs of people with reduced mobility. i also support the position taken by the rapporteur on the position that the eu should take by ensuring that member states, local and regional authorities work together to achieve this, creating the conditions for positive effects in spatial planning, socioeconomic planning and environmental protection.
‒ land use planning is crucial for the creation of efficient, accessible transport networks and becomes fundamental to environmentally sustainable urban planning. long-term sustainable urban mobility plans (ltsp), supported by ict technologies, are important tools for providing adequate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens. we insist on the need for public policies that can provide the instruments to enable these development strategies to be used to serve the citizen. in this respect, we are broadly in line with the objectives of the report, while at the same time pointing out our differences with regard to, among other things, the white paper on european transport policy which seeks to impose a commercial vision on this sector.
‒ the report stresses the importance of developing sustainable urban mobility policies that do not inhibit the development of cities, regions and countries, while ensuring the reduction of the environmental impacts of the transport sector, better urban planning, improved health indicators and social inclusion. the report emphasises the promotion of quality and affordable public transport (including as a means of boosting urban economies and helping to combat poverty and social exclusion), the need to promote mobility plans, the use of alternative fuels, the improvement of pollution situations and their impact on human health (air pollutant emissions and noise pollution) and the reduction of accidents. a 'bottom-up' approach is advocated, as opposed to the imposition of guidelines by the eu institutions. we voted in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. other mr president, the european union needs to have an ambitious strategy, and that means having an action plan with benchmarks and having governance, and the commission's role is indeed irreplaceable. we need an energy union because it is strategic for our independence and also to promote the independence of other states with which we are in contact and to avoid conflicts in the world, as we have seen in the middle east and in the russia-ukraine conflict. we absolutely need to invest in the interconnectivity of energy networks the commissioner has said that it is ridiculous, for example, that the iberian peninsula does not even provide electricity. we need to focus on energy efficiency. we need more investment by the member states and the commission in renewable energy, not nuclear in my view. this is because there are strategic opportunities for the competitiveness of european companies in this area as well. it is the only way to be consistent with the commitments made at cop 21.
in writing. it is imperative to reach 10% of installed generation capacity in the short term and 15% by 2030 as a minimum interconnection target. this priority was agreed by the european commission, the council and this parliament in the previous legislature. i am therefore sorry that the eriksson report under discussion today seems to call this priority into question. we are constantly witnessing the persistence of what is a market failure, and we have an obligation to engage politically in resolving it, without giving in to the vested interests which for years, or even decades, have prevented a proper integration of the energy market. failure to do so would condemn several member states to their peripheral condition, not only in energy terms but also economically. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments which point to ways of strengthening that objective.
in writing. in paris, an irreversible step was taken in the right direction for the sustainability of the planet. the energy transition is not the only instrument to achieve the targets, but it is the most important. the european union must firmly implement the energy union and the single energy market to lead by example in combating global warming and to embark on a decisive path of economic turnaround towards growth, quality job creation and tackling inequalities. the focus on renewable energy, smart grids, new models of urban organisation, sustainable mobility, energy efficiency of buildings and public spaces, new services and models of industrial production calls for innovation and creativity on the one hand, and gives purpose and focus to fundamental and applied research on the other. the union's energy sovereignty and plurality of supply sources must be jointly ensured by building a market capable of delivering clean and cheap energy to households and businesses, ensuring the objective of minimum 10% interconnections by 2020 and its clear surpassing in the years to come.
in writing. no community, no person should be a victim of terrorism or any other crime. in the recent past, however, we have been reminded of this condition, a little bit across europe, with particular intensity. we were also reminded of the special nature of the victims of terrorism, whose impacts go - not infrequently - beyond the physical pain, the direct consequences. this year the (horizontal) directive on the protection of victims enters into force, which aims to ensure that, in an increasingly mobile europe, all european citizens have a set of guarantees, even when they are outside their country of residence. however, it is agreed that, like victims of human trafficking, victims of terrorism require specific care. i therefore very much welcomed the proposal presented by the commission on 2 february, which intends to introduce a specific system within the european security agency, complementary to the horizontal directive. i also thank the commissioner for bringing to this debate the confirmation that this will be a priority for the commission. while we cannot guarantee that we will never again have terrorist attacks on european soil, we can at least ensure that our victims suffer as little as possible.
madam president, we have here a very fine example of the interests served by the european commission and, by the way, of the kind of democracy that prevails in the institutions of the european union. a few days after the environment committee of the european parliament raised an objection to the authorisation of monsanto's genetically modified maize nk603 t25, the european commission, in the absence of a consensus of the member states, decided to authorise the placing on the market of this same genetically modified maize. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. this is a genetically modified corn to tolerate two herbicides, glufosinate and glyphosate. the first is classified by the european union itself as toxic to reproduction; the second is classified by the world health organization as potentially carcinogenic. the total discrediting of the current gmo authorization mechanism in the european union requires the immediate suspension of new authorizations until the president of the european commission fulfils his promise and presents a new mechanism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european social fund. it is now clear that, even in the light of the possibilities already available, the potential of this programme is not being properly exploited. this is largely due to a common problem in european union programmes: the lack of information and ways of supporting those concerned. it is often those who are least excluded, those who have the information, who end up benefiting from this possibility of applying for microcredit. we are following the logic of the report which does not emphasize the solution of microfinance as the absolute solution to solve social and economic problems, as many emphasize. this logic is fallacious and dangerous, it puts social equity and development policies in the hands of the greater or lesser success of individuals, while relieving the states of their responsibilities. microfinance yes, but without replacing the social functions of the states.
madam president, the united arab emirates is a federal state composed of seven emirates with a high degree of autonomy. two emirates dominate the federation. the first, which concentrates the largest oil reserves, and the second, which bases its wealth in two port areas. both are seen as a turntable covering all types of illegal activities, in particular economic and financial crime and money laundering. the profits from these activities, such as vat fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, etc., are in turn reinvested in the united arab emirates, where the protagonists of all these schemes have taken refuge. in other words, once again we have free zones and tax havens emerging as the main characters in a drama that affects europe and that allows the maintenance of all kinds of illegal activities that cover up, in the last instance, terrorism, but also tax evasion and avoidance.
madam president, i would like to emphasize that as defined in this report, fisheries in europe must follow the new common fisheries policy and must accommodate the marine strategy framework directive. when we are in the midst of discussing fishing opportunities for next year and when we are discussing the multiannual plan for the baltic, we find that the council's choice is still to torpedo the scientifically proposed limits, almost always exceeding those indications. this is a serious situation with consequences for the sustainability of the water catchment areas in the short term and a potentially irreversible risk to fishermen's incomes and jobs in the medium and long term. we must change and take account of the need to look at the safety of fish stocks and not to make strategic plans as if we were living in the past. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, on his work. we may not agree with some of the details in this report, but we are in complete agreement with the need to preserve the sustainability of fishermen, marine resources and ecosystems.
madam president, technical measures and multiannual plans are useful tools with potential in fisheries management. the multiannual plans have the advantage in general terms of allowing some stability and predictability to a sector that is hardly affected by major instability, but these plans must be part of a local management system that involves the sector and in which the member states have a leading role. the institutional framework in force since the lisbon treaty, which enshrines the management of living marine resources as an exclusive competence of the european union, imposes a centralised management of fisheries that is far removed from reality, which does not take into account the enormous diversity that characterises the sector at the level of resources, fleets, fishing gear and fisheries, making local management unfeasible. it is this proximity management that best meets the objectives of a fisheries policy: to ensure the public supply of fish, to ensure a decent income for fishermen, to promote the development of coastal communities and to do all this while ensuring good conservation of resources.
madam president, the ecb is today the most powerful institution in the european union, the result of a huge hoax which sought to create a neutral institution with a purely technical and apolitical mission. we know the depth of this deception and we have become accustomed over the years to seeing the ecb impose its policies on democratically elected governments. we are used to living with this promiscuity between the ecb and the big international financial groups and in particular with this omnipresent entity called goldman sachs, with a sinister path that many of the current decision-makers of the ecb, including its president, cross. what we have learned in recent weeks is that the ecb and its executive committee members meet regularly with representatives of large companies in the financial sector, even on the eve of major monetary policy decisions being announced. what information is exchanged at these meetings? why are the ecb's decision-makers not respecting the rules of confidentiality? we are still waiting for answers from the ecb.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, the euro area is the engine of the european economy and it needs to deliver growth and jobs in order to deliver much stronger support to the european project. that is why parliament needs to have a strong say in all these matters, and that is why this dialogue today is so relevant. i would like to welcome the president of the eurogroup, the president of the commission, and the vice—president of the commission in charge of the eurozone. the eurozone is confronted with three major problems: a clear output gap, macroeconomic imbalances and worrying economic and social divergences. these problems are there. i believe there is a key word to respond to these problems, which is investment: investment turned to the future, and investment on a european scale. we need to have much more investment to raise domestic demand in europe. success in exports is positive, of course, but we cannot only rely on exports. that is why we believe that this aggregate fiscal stance should be used to identify clearly the investment gap we have in europe, and to organise member states to share their efforts to address this investment gap. when it comes to macroeconomic imbalances, we need to ask those member states that have a current account surplus to make more effort to invest for their own benefit. otherwise, the macro imbalances will rely only on the efforts made by member states which have a deficit. that means that they have to reduce wages, demand and jobs. we need a joint effort from surplus and deficit countries to reduce macroeconomic imbalances. then we have the problem of divergences. again, we need to have investment in all members of the eurozone to push for upward convergence. this is necessary. and while member states do need to make their own catching-up efforts, these should be complemented by the necessary european instruments: completing the banking union and building up fiscal capacity. these are issues where parliament will remain very active. we plan to be active on the road to completing economic and monetary union and in the key moments of the european semester. this is, again, a very important moment. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– mr etheridge, i agree with your identification of choices, but i believe my choices are different from yours, because i really think that the solution for us europeans is to move forward quickly in completing and rebalancing the economic and monetary union. i really believe there is a future for all members of the euro area.
mr president, this debate is extremely important. the three presidents who co-signed the five presidents’ report are here and we are, for the first time, discussing in plenary the stance and functioning of the eurozone. so this moment is very welcome indeed. the truth is that, more than seven years after the 2008 crisis, in spite of the welcome massive quantitative easing by the european central bank and also in spite of a more intelligent application of the governance rules by the commission, the eurozone economy is stagnant. it is basically flat with strong internal divergences and alarming levels of poverty and unemployment. the reality confirms what we have repeatedly been saying here and what president draghi said in 2014, which is that in a recessive economic environment, monetary union alone is not enough to boost the economy. in a zero lower bound interest rate and stagnant economy, investment projects are hardly viable, thus limiting the potential to increase competitiveness and create new jobs, while non-performing loans jeopardise the viability of banks and other lenders. so the commission and council urgently need to acknowledge that the policies which have been imposed until now need urgent change. in 2015, gdp per head and the level of productive investment in the euro area remain below the levels in 2007. the future of the eu – and in particular the future of the eurozone and its acceptance by its citizens – depends on this policy change. change means that the eurozone cannot, in 2016, pursue a neutral aggregate fiscal stance as, once again, is being proposed by the commission and the council. it is suicidal to ignore the facts and to persist in this neutral stance. the aggregate fiscal stance should instead be expansionist, clearly countercyclical, protect productive investment and limit internal divergent trends. but what instruments do we have? until now, only pre-crisis external deficit countries have adjusted, whereas external surplus countries continue to increase their current account surpluses. the surplus largely reflects excess domestic savings over investment, which leaves the eurozone without a stimulus. this asymmetric adjustment, incapable of generating internal investment or conception, is further reducing the viability of the common currency. apart from interpreting the existing rules in a wiser way, we need immediately to prepare for the next phase of the 2015 five presidents’ report, which is already a diluted version of the 2012 van rompuy report. but we need to prepare immediately for the establishment of conditions to create a fiscal capacity for the eurozone. without a reinforced budget, monetary union cannot function. european institutions also need to respect and comply with all the promises made, on the banking union in particular, by urgently providing an indispensable permanent credible backstop to the single resolution mechanism, by accelerating the common guarantee of deposits, and by allowing the esm to directly recapitalise banks. i recall that this element is included in the first phase of the five presidents’ report. i do not think that this can be a trade—off for anything else. it is just finishing what has been promised. this is essential for mutual trust and the belief of citizens.
we are talking about a further step in the deepening of the process of economic governance, seeking to respond to the proven failure of the european semester. the stability pact has been joined by the six pack, the two pack and the euro+ pact. we are now discussing more rules and more procedures with this proposal from the five presidents, all of whom are seeking to respond to a social and economic crisis and to tighten up the budgetary policy of the national states even further. the failure to comply with the recommendations by country is mentioned, but its timeliness or applicability is not disputed. instead, it is preferable to impose more expert bodies which, under the guise of an allegedly infallible scientificity, will only cause more confusion and deepen the anti-democratic character of economic governance. but as political as the report is, it still fails to resolve this irreconcilable contradiction of having a system in which countries that need to invest cannot and those that can do so do not because they lack the capacity to consume. the persistence of external imbalances is now being noted. countries accumulate surpluses at the expense of others. the report now proposes that the process of economic governance should encourage governments with surpluses to spend more in the interests of all, that is, it seeks to resolve, in an administrative way, a balance that was ensured through the money market that existed before the euro. it's a pity.
in writing.– mr dijsselbloem, where is the european deposit guarantee without which the banking union is incomplete, leaving the citizens unprotected – they who are called to pay ever more into state revenue, while multinationals and wealthy individuals park tax-evaded capital in tax havens with banks’ assistance? this is indeed a crisis of legitimacy, as president juncker noted, so evident in the ongoing race into the bottom on tax dumping among member states, aggravating tax injustice. look at my country, portugal: a former tax authority director just stated that 1 000 of the wealthiest families who should pay for 25% of the national revenue in personal income tax actually only pay 0.5%. and that, under the troika’s noses, the tax authority unit set to make these families pay their dues was dismantled. until the commission and council put into practice the measures recommended by our taxe committee, harmonise taxation and on that basis adopt a proper european budget for relaunching investment and growth, the legitimacy crisis will only deepen, together with unemployment, stagnation and divergence in the eurozone. only the electoral scores of le pen and other xenophobic and anti-european forces will ominously grow!
‒ the swiss federation has an extensive set of agreements with the european union, in particular on the internal market but going beyond this area. in this sense, switzerland has offered to take part in the european union's refugee resettlement effort. in this respect, it has so far cooperated informally with the european asylum support office (easo). this agreement, which parliament is now giving its consent to, will formalize this cooperation.
in writing. the recommendation concerns a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easa), and is essentially aimed at allowing switzerland to participate in the work of the easa and receive support from it, as well as the possibility of having an observer on the board of the agency. the situation of refugees who have moved to europe in recent months raises serious humanitarian concerns. the large number of refugees arriving requires the creation of conditions of assistance and reception, which are far from being guaranteed. on the contrary, i did. the european union has not been able to cope with the problem, nor with the responsibility it has and is at the origin of this scourge. the establishment of this agreement may be a positive step, but it is only a drop in a huge ocean of problems that urgently need to be addressed in order to ensure effective protection and reception for the thousands of refugees - children and adults - who arrive every day fleeing war and persecution in their countries of origin.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the european asylum support office is a european union agency that has been operating since 2011. it is intended to increase cooperation between member states on asylum and to support those member states whose asylum and reception systems are particularly under pressure. switzerland accedes as an associated country.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 439/2010 established the european asylum support office with the aim of strengthening practical cooperation between member states on asylum and reinforcing the implementation of the common european asylum system. in the light of the report on the modalities of switzerland's participation in the european asylum support office, i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 439/2010 established a european asylum support office to strengthen cooperation between member states in this field, improve the implementation of the common european asylum system and assist member states whose asylum systems are under the greatest pressure. under these rules, it is accepted that the office may be open to the participation of the designated associated countries (iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland), and to this end arrangements should be concluded specifying the nature, scope and forms of their participation in the work. in the light of this framework, the commission received on 27 january 2012 authorisation from the council to open the corresponding negotiations with those countries, and the final text of the agreement with switzerland was initialled on 28 june 2013. however, while it is true that the participation of these countries in the work of the office is not only a logical step, given their association with the dublin system, but also has added value for the support provided by the office, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of their participation in the european asylum support office.
‒ switzerland has voluntarily decided to participate in the work of the european asylum support office - an office which has strongly strengthened cooperation between member states in the field of asylum and reception policy, but has not yet formalised its participation in it. following the results of last year's referendum, switzerland decided to suspend the procedures leading to its formal participation in the cabinet (currently switzerland has observer status), and this recommendation of the european parliament - which i voted in favour of - approves the council's decision and invites the parties involved - in particular the swiss confederation - to complete this procedure (initiated on 28 june 2013, i.e. two and a half years ago).
‒ this agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easa) is essentially intended to allow switzerland to participate in the work of the easa and to receive support from it, as well as the possibility of having an observer on the agency's management board. the situation of refugees who have moved to europe in recent months raises serious humanitarian concerns. the large number of refugees arriving requires the creation of conditions for assistance, which are far from guaranteed. the european union has not been able to cope with the problem, nor with the responsibility it has and is at the origin of this scourge. the establishment of this agreement may be a positive step, but it is only a drop in a huge ocean of problems that urgently need to be addressed in order to ensure effective protection and reception for the thousands of refugees - children and adults - who arrive every day fleeing war and persecution in their countries of origin.
in writing. the recommendation concerns a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easa), and is essentially aimed at allowing switzerland to participate in the work of the easa and receive support from it, as well as the possibility of having an observer on the board of the agency. the situation of refugees who have moved to europe in recent months raises serious humanitarian concerns. the large number of refugees arriving requires the creation of conditions for assistance, which are far from guaranteed. the european union has not been able to cope with the problem, nor with the responsibility it has and is at the origin of this scourge. the establishment of this agreement may be a positive step, but it is only a drop in a huge ocean of problems that urgently need to be addressed to ensure effective protection and reception for the thousands of refugees - children and adults - who arrive every day fleeing war and persecution in their countries of origin. we voted yes.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see dominica on the list of countries exempt from visa requirements for short stays.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the community of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and dominican nationals to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican community, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and dominican community nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the dominican community, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the community of dominica was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and the community of dominica. the negotiations were concluded on 9 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and dominican nationals to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and the dominican community.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and the dominican community, and is of high political importance, and is also an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations, as well as to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ i have decided to support the proposal for a recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. as in the other visa waivers voted on today, the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the enormous political importance of the cotonou agreement were essential to this strengthening of bilateral cooperation and to the facilitation and conclusion of this agreement. dominica has an economy predominantly focused on the agricultural sector. however, it has made numerous efforts to boost growth in the tourism sector and geothermal energy production. the agreement will not only boost tourism but also strengthen trade and investment links by simplifying travel conditions, thereby promoting links between businesses and entrepreneurs, both in terms of new investment and consumer-supplier relations. as dominica is a democratically stable country with significant progress in the defence of human rights, it is essential to continue to ensure and expand this path of democratic dialogue. as the eu is the main promoter of fundamental rights in the dominican republic, this agreement is expected to be a plus for both co-signatories, which is why i supported the recommendation to conclude this agreement.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and dominican nationals to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see vanuatu on the list of countries exempt from short-term stays.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu, and constitutes an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings the peoples closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of vanuatu was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and the republic of vanuatu. the negotiations were concluded on 4 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and the republic of vanuatu.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and vanuatu, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. vanuatu has a small economy focused predominantly on agriculture and services, notably finance and tourism. the areas of union cooperation and economic assistance with vanuatu are mainly concentrated in the private sector - through support for job creation, as well as in agricultural and tourism policies. although the trade and investment relations established between the eu and the pacific are, to date, relatively tenuous, it is hoped that this visa-free agreement will bring some potential for the development of this small partner country, particularly in the tourism sector, and that it will be an added value for both peoples.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see trinidad and tobago on the list of countries exempt for short stays.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and nationals of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings the peoples closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of trinidad and tobago has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. the negotiations were concluded on 15 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and trinidad and tobago, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. although the main objective is to strengthen the eu's relations with trinidad and tobago - which have developed over the last decades under the cotonou agreement - i would like to stress that trinidad and tobago is a stable country that upholds democratic principles, the protection of human rights and the rule of law and it was the respect for these principles that made the agreement possible. the intensification of trade and investment relations and the development of tourism with trinidad and tobago also contributed to the conclusion of the agreement, and were the driving forces behind the facilitation and conclusion of the agreement. thus, european citizens travelling to trinidad and tobago (and reciprocally from trinidad and tobago) will be able to benefit from free short-stay visas, except where the motivation for the trip is the pursuit of gainful activities.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see samoa on the list of countries exempt for short stays.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) are exempt from the visa requirement, regardless of the purpose of the travel, except for the pursuit of a gainful activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the independent state of samoa has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and the independent state of samoa. the negotiations were concluded on 15 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and the independent state of samoa.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and samoa, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the political importance of the agreement between the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) and the european union were fundamental to the desire to strengthen bilateral cooperation by concluding this agreement, which, like the other agreements of the same nature voted on today, had been provisionally in force since 6 may. samoa is one of the most dynamic economies in the pacific islands, with the agricultural sector accounting for 90% of its exports. the areas of union cooperation and economic assistance with samoa are mainly concentrated in the private sector, in particular in the water sector and tourism. however, the trade relations established between the eu and samoa are, to date, scarce. however, and given that no member state has a consulate in samoa, the potential for development and growth in this visa-free agreement, particularly in the tourism and business sectors, is expected to be an asset, especially for samoa, and i have therefore decided to support this proposal for a recommendation.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) are exempt from the visa requirement, regardless of the purpose of the travel, except for the pursuit of a gainful activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see grenada on the list of countries exempt from short-term stays.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada (a small island state in central america, part of the lesser antilles) on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and grenada to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and grenada, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and grenadian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and grenada, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, grenada has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and grenada. the negotiations were concluded on 9 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and grenada to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and grenada.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and grenada, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in the same vein as other votes on the same subject today, i have decided to support the proposal for a recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the political importance of the cotonou agreement were key to the desire to increase bilateral cooperation and the conclusion of this agreement. it is also intended that this agreement will strengthen relations between the eu and grenada at a number of levels - such as intensifying dialogue on human rights and rule of law issues. this country is heavily dependent on the export of bananas and spices. however, recently there has been a decline in the importance of the agricultural sector in favour of the services sector, notably tourism and construction. although relatively underdeveloped, grenada faces numerous challenges, due to its size, distance from major consumer markets and limited resources. the agreement will provide business travellers with more attractive travel conditions, which could facilitate investment in the country, strengthen economic partnerships, boost trade and boost tourism.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and grenada to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. i am therefore pleased to see timor-leste on the list of countries exempt from short-term visits.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that this measure will facilitate the movement of timorese citizens to the european territory and vice versa. this movement is of particular importance for timorese who come to europe in search of better living conditions, an opportunity in which portugal also plays an important role because of the history and tradition of proximity between these two countries. this measure also promotes the same status for citizens of the european union who wish to travel to the democratic republic of timor-leste, in both cases within a maximum period of 90 days. in addition to the natural practical objectives of this measure, there are other objectives such as the intensification of political dialogue and the deepening of democracy in east timor, the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the facilitation of tourist travel, tourism being a key sector for the development of east timor.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) are exempt from the visa requirement, regardless of the purpose of their travel, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. we welcome this development. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste, and constitutes an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states, which timor-leste acceded to shortly after its independence. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the democratic republic of timor was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and the democratic republic of timor. the negotiations were concluded on 15 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 26 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the democratic republic of timor to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and the democratic republic of timor.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and timor, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - for reasons which the portuguese people will understand, it is with great personal satisfaction that i have voted in favour of the proposal for a recommendation concerning the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. the political stability of east timor, respect for democratic principles, the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the fact that it is an acp country were fundamental to the desire to increase bilateral cooperation, the facilitation and the conclusion of this agreement. east timor sees economic relations and tourism as a key factor in its development. the conclusion of this visa-free agreement will certainly stimulate the interest of european citizens and potential investors in this portuguese-speaking territory in the far east. the political importance of this agreement is also evident at regional level, whereby the strengthening of the eu's position as a partner in this pacific region is important. in conclusion, i would just like to mention once again the rapid and commendable democratic stability that east timor has achieved since its independence.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) are exempt from the visa requirement, regardless of the purpose of their travel, except for the pursuit of a gainful activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, security of the visa system or risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has also helped to consolidate democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see saint lucia on the list of countries exempt for short stays.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint statement on the interpretation of the concept of '90-day period' is annexed to the agreement. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and saint lucia, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, saint lucia was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and saint lucia. the negotiations were concluded on 11 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and saint lucia.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and saint lucia, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ once again, the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the political importance of the cotonou agreement were key to the will to enhance bilateral cooperation, the facilitation and the conclusion of this agreement. saint lucia is a young country with limited resources, but it has made a commitment and even overcome the challenges of the millennium, showing a strong commitment to fundamental rights. with a small economy and a substantial agricultural base, saint lucia is one of the caribbean island countries that has achieved the best ratings in terms of ease of doing business. its tourist development has also been a strong economic lever, even overtaking the agricultural sector which is so important to this small economy. the potential for development, particularly in the tourism and trade sectors, of this visa waiver agreement is therefore expected to be an asset for both co-signatories, strengthening eu-santa lucia relations. i have therefore decided to support this proposal for a recommendation.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint statement on the interpretation of the concept of '90-day period' is annexed to the agreement. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempted from this obligation by meeting a set of criteria, endorsed in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, the security of the visa system or the risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can also promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has contributed to the consolidation of democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see saint vincent and the grenadines on the list of countries exempt from short-term stays.
‒ this recommendation concerns the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines a member country of alba (the latin american space for regional cooperation and integration, with a progressive character, from which the eu could learn a great deal) on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement facilitates travel, which is in itself a positive. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, saint vincent and the grenadines has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and saint vincent and the grenadines. the negotiations were concluded on 11 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 28 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines.
‒ this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines, and is of high political importance, as well as being an additional means to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ i supported this proposal for a recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and the political importance of the cotonou agreement were key to the enhancement of bilateral cooperation and to the facilitation and conclusion of this agreement. this country has been severely hit by natural disasters which have caused difficult times with direct economic consequences - the case of the export of its main agricultural product, the banana. local tourism has also been affected, resulting in a barrier to economic recovery. however, the positive development of the country has been reflected in the improvement of external trade, which has allowed the diversification of its economy, the focus on exports, tourism and social development. by not posing any threat in terms of irregular migration or public security and order, this agreement will help achieve the objectives proposed, which is why it deserves my vote in favour.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this recommendation is related to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint statement on the interpretation of the concept of '90-day period' is annexed to the agreement. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempted from this obligation by meeting a set of criteria, endorsed in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, the security of the visa system or the risk of illegal immigration. the visa waiver goes far beyond benefits for european and third country tourists. it can also promote rapprochement and dialogue between cultures, economic growth and has contributed to the consolidation of democratic regimes. so it is with pleasure that i see the united arab emirates on the list of countries exempt from short-term stays.
‒ this recommendation is related to the decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the united arab emirates (uae) on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and uae nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the uae is part of the bloc of reactionary (ultra-conservative) arab regimes that seek to contain the growing popular uprisings, giving rise to imperialist goals of domination of the region. france, britain, germany, italy and spain accounted for eighty per cent of arms exports to the eu. the main customers are saudi arabia (eur 4,2 billion) and the uae (eur 1,9 billion), according to 2013 data. these, in turn, supply arms to mercenary groups which destabilise and terrorize the people, leading to the latest terrorist attacks in europe and the middle east, which are claiming victims. beyond this framework, it is not too much to recall that the peoples of the uae are faced with the limitation and repression of fundamental freedoms and rights, such as freedom of expression, workers' rights, women's rights and children's rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. i share the rapporteur's view that this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates, and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, but also of deepening political debate and dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ the european commission has established an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, which requires the approval of the european parliament. visa facilitation brings people closer together and strengthens economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, reinforcing the political importance of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union and its member states. several categories of persons, irrespective of the purpose of their visit, are covered by this visa facilitation agreement, except in the case of gainful employment. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to establish relations between the european union and other communities which will bring benefits to both sides in the economic, political and social fields and will give a boost to bilateral cooperation dialogues.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the united arab emirates has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. following the adoption of that regulation, the council authorised the commission on 9 october 2014 to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the union and the united arab emirates. the negotiations were concluded on 20 december 2014 and the agreement was signed on 6 may 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the united arab emirates to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be an important agreement to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the european union and the united arab emirates.
‒ this agreement shows the openness of the uae towards closer relations with the european union, including on issues related to human rights, migrant workers' rights, women's rights and freedom of expression.
‒ i have decided to support the proposal for a recommendation on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the united arab emirates (uae) on the short-stay visa waiver. the strengthening of trade and investment relations and the opening of an eu delegation to the uae in 2013 contributed to the will to enhance bilateral cooperation and to facilitate the conclusion of this agreement. this agreement has not only strengthened eu-uae relations at a wide range of levels but also intensified political, economic and trade dialogue. although this measure has been in force provisionally since 6 may, it is only now that the eu's legislative procedure has been formally completed and both eu and uae citizens will be able to benefit from this exemption on their travels (in reciprocal terms), thus overcoming the barriers of expensive visas and travel planning made well in advance. this will also boost business and tourism travel and strengthen the eu-uae partnership, bringing europe closer to the uae - the first arab state with which the eu has signed such an agreement.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and this third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for nationals of that third country when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity.
‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the united arab emirates when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the united arab emirates is part of the bloc of ultraconservative and religious fundamentalist regimes that are seeking to contain the growing popular uprisings, giving rise to the imperialist intention to secure control of the region at all costs, in their opportunistic interest for natural resources and geostrategic dominance. available information shows that france, great britain, germany, italy and spain accounted for 80% of arms exports to the eu, with saudi arabia (eur 4,2 billion) and the united arab emirates (eur 1,9 billion) as the main customers, according to 2013 data. these in turn supply arms to mercenary groups that destabilise and terrorize the people, leading to the most recent 'terrorist' attacks. beyond this framework, it is not too much to recall that the people of the uae are faced with the limitation and repression of fundamental freedoms and rights, such as freedom of expression, workers' rights, women's rights and children's rights. we abstained.
in writing. ‒ under decision 2002/187/jha, eurojust may conclude cooperation agreements or arrangements with the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies established by or on the basis of the treaties. such cooperation agreements or arrangements may in particular concern the exchange of information, including personal data, and the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. eurojust has negotiated with the office for harmonization in the internal market the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. i welcome the peculiarity of article 3 (5) of the memorandum, which stipulates that the exchange of information and experience does not include the transmission of operational information, in particular data relating to an identified or identifiable person. i support the report in question because i consider the agreement reached to be fruitful and legitimate and to contribute to a better performance of the functions of these two bodies.
‒ the objective of the memorandum of understanding is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the institute for harmonisation in the internal market (ihmi), in accordance with their respective mandates, by strengthening the fight against certain crimes, in particular counterfeiting of products. it provides for the exchange of 'technical and strategic' information, but does not include the transmission of 'operational information, in particular data relating to an identified or identifiable person'. the rapporteur considers it legitimate to conclude that eurojust and the ohim recognise that the terms of the memorandum contribute to the better performance of their respective functions. it follows that, as it stands, the memorandum is in the common interest of eurojust and the ohim. although the report focuses on a number of technical aspects and the issues of personal data are duly safeguarded, in the assessment of this report we have taken into account our positions of principle with regard to the two institutions in question and the known reservations about their tasks.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the objective of this memorandum is to develop strategic cooperation, taking into account the functions of eurojust and the ohim.
‒ the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 and the proposal to amend directive 2008/95/ec, concerning the community trade mark, aim to harmonise the trade mark registration systems existing in all the member states of the european union and to ensure the coexistence and complementarity between the community trade mark system and the national trade mark systems. i support this amendment in order to make trademark systems more efficient for companies, reducing their costs, bureaucracy and the complexity of procedures, and ensuring greater speed, predictability and legal certainty. so i am sure that there will be a substantial increase in innovation and economic growth. it is important to stress the need to extend the community acquis on the protection of geographical indications at union level to include, through a future eu legislative act, geographical indications for goods other than agricultural and foodstuffs, wines and spirits.
‒ i voted in favour of this draft council decision concerning the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between the institute for harmonisation in the internal market (ihmi) and eurojust. this is a memorandum designed to foster strategic cooperation between eurojust and ohim and can thus contribute to better performance by both parties. i believe that the conditions are right for the council to adopt such an instrument.
in writing. this legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available the traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet the needs of the treasury, which i voted in favour of, is part of the new legislative package on own resources which will enter into force at the beginning of 2016 (with retroactive effect from 01/01/2014). this highly technical regulation contains practical provisions on such matters as the establishment of traditional own resources, the retention of supporting documents, the rate applicable to own resources based on gni, and the making of adjustments and other provisions relating to the management of cash and amounts outstanding. i also think it is important to take account of the need to establish effective rules on the provision of contributions to the union budget by the member states, in order to enable the commission to properly manage its treasury operations. the report also stresses that the union's own resources system is too complex and 'needs to be thoroughly reformed in the next multiannual financial framework', a statement with which i agree.
‒ the memorandum of understanding fosters cooperation between eurojust and the ihmi, in accordance with their respective mandates, by strengthening the fight against serious crime, in particular counterfeiting of products. eurojust and the ohim recognise that the terms of the memorandum, including article 6 thereof, contribute to the better performance of their tasks. we have followed the advantages of such a memorandum and noted that personal data is safeguarded.
‒ the draft implementing decision under examination formalises the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the institute for harmonisation in the internal market (ihmi), for which the committee on legal affairs is competent under annex vi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, and eurojust. the objective of this memorandum of understanding is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the ihmi, in accordance with their respective mandates, in the areas of the fight against serious crime, in particular counterfeiting. given our strong objections both to the harmonization processes within the framework of the internal market policy and to eurojust, which means the withdrawal of national competences from the justice systems of each country, we voted against.
‒ this report concerns the amendment of the regulation defining the member states' contributions to the eu budget, in particular those based on vat and gni. the proposed amendments are designed to speed up and make available resources in a timely manner, while avoiding as significant a posteriori adjustments as those seen in recent years. the amendments clarify more technical aspects and increase transparency and accuracy in the calculation of national contributions. although this is generally a positive sentiment, we have long advocated a more substantive change in national contributions to the eu budget, with a substantial increase in the latter, guaranteed by national contributions that take account of each country's relative wealth (based on its gni), with a substantial increase in contributions from the countries with the highest gni those that have benefited most from the single market and eu policies. the community budget should have a redistributive role and should give priority to real convergence and the promotion of economic and social cohesion, and the own resources ceiling should therefore be raised. the current budget is far from allowing it. this is not the subject of this report, but only of some very technical adjustments to the present system. we abstained.
‒ the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 on the methods and procedure for making available the traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet the needs of the treasury approved the commission proposal as amended. the need to establish clear and effective rules on the timely provision of contributions to the union budget by the member states, so that the european commission can manage its treasury operations properly, is one of the points highlighted in this report, a position which i also share. i voted in favour.
‒ i agree with the rapporteur that the provision and adjustment of member states' contributions to the union budget should not be the subject of political negotiation but should be a technical process to meet the treasury needs. i support the need to establish effective rules on the timely provision of contributions to the union budget by the member states in order to enable the commission to properly manage its treasury operations. it should be noted that most member states are paying, without significant delay, the full amount of their gni-based and vat-based contributions to the union budget. the rapporteur has said that this proposal deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation aims to amend regulation no 609/2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the measures in question. it contains technical provisions on the clearance of traditional own resources, the retention of supporting documents, administrative cooperation, the rate applicable to own resources based on gni, the drawing up of own resources accounts and the timetable for their making available and the introduction of adjustments, as well as provisions on cash management and amounts not recoverable. those rules will now be subject to a review which, among other adjustments - such as the guarantee that the own resources accounts are free from negative charges and interest and the possibility of advancing twelfths of a month - aims to streamline the annual adjustments to the own resources based on vat and gni in the light of the experience gained in the 2014 adjustments made under an amendment to regulation no 1150/2000, which will now cease to apply when regulation no 609/2014 enters into force. i voted in favour.
‒ this report speeds up the application of resources and proposes that the annual calculation of member states' contributions to the eu budget be made mandatory not only for the member states but also for the european parliament. we believe that a fair own resources system must be in line with the relative wealth of each country (based on its gni), so that the effort in the budgetary contribution is similar for all citizens in the different eu member states, and there are still exceptions for some countries in the calculation of their contribution. the community budget should therefore play a redistributive role and give priority to real convergence and the promotion of economic and social cohesion, and the own resources ceiling should therefore be raised.
‒ this report concerns the amendment to the regulation laying down the rules by which member states make own resources available to the commission for the budget of the european union, in particular those based on vat and gni. the proposed changes are aimed at streamlining and making resources available in a timely manner, after what happened during 2014 when the adjustments for the years 1995-2013 were very high. the proposed amendments also clarify interest rates and other more technical aspects, and increase transparency and accuracy by reporting adjustments, in a timely and regular manner, to the calculation process and to vat/gni data. we believe that a fair system of own resources must be in line with the relative wealth of each country (based on its gni), so that the effort in the budgetary contribution is similar for all citizens of the different eu member states, and there are still exceptions for some countries in the calculation of their contribution. the community budget should therefore play a redistributive role and give priority to real convergence and the promotion of economic and social cohesion, and the own resources ceiling should therefore be raised.
‒ the report under consideration concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos, which the public prosecutor's office has requested from the supreme court of greece, in the context of a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. the mp is accused of not paying part of the salary of a former employee. the accusation concerns part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of two newspaper publishing companies, of which georgios kyrtsos was a manager at the time. considering that the alleged infringement has no connection with georgios kyrtsos's term of office as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his previous position as manager of two newspaper publishing companies; that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes expressed in the course of the member's term of office (in dispute for the purposes of article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union) and that there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the member's political activity (fumus persecutionis), given that the proceedings began some years before the member's term of office began, we voted in favour of the lifting of georgios kyrtsos' parliamentary immunity.
‒ having regard to the relevant rules of procedure of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos.
‒ i shall vote in favour of this report after all the legal procedures have been completed, because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal action was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ on 21 july 2015, the public prosecutor's office at the supreme court of greece requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos in a legal action in which the member of the european parliament is accused of failing to pay part of the salary of a former employee. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, article 8 of the protocol does not apply in this case, as the alleged infringement has no relation to georgios kyrtsos' mandate as a member of parliament, but rather to his previous position as manager of two newspaper publishing companies. in these terms, and on the basis of the juri report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos.
‒ this is a matter of internal greek justice, unrelated to the status of georgios kyrtsos as a member of parliament.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos, which arises following a request by the public prosecutor's office to the supreme court of greece, concerning a judicial case where the member is accused of not paying part of the salary of a former employee in 2013, when he was the manager of two newspaper publishing companies, where she worked. in fact, this is an alleged infringement which is not directly related to georgios kyrtsos' mandate in the european parliament and since there are no substantial and legitimate reasons to suspect that the legal action in question is aimed at harming the member's political activity, the conditions for the waiver of parliamentary immunity are met and for that reason i voted in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ member of parliament georgios kyrtsos is accused of not paying part of the salary of a former worker. we have voted in favour of the waiver of mr kyrtsos' parliamentary immunity, bearing in mind that the alleged infringement has no relation to his term of office as a member of the european parliament.
‒ the report under consideration concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos which the public prosecutor's office has requested from the supreme court of greece in the context of a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. georgios kyrtsos is accused of not paying part of the salary of a former employee of a company where kyrtsos was a manager. considering that the alleged infringement has no connection with georgios kyrtsos's term of office as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his previous position as manager of two newspaper publishing companies; that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes expressed in the course of the member of the european parliament's term of office for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and that there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the member's political activity (fumus persecutionis), since the proceedings were initiated some years before the member's term of office began, we voted in favour of the lifting of georgios kyrtsos' parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr stelios kouloglou, made by the public prosecutor's office of the hellenic republic, in the context of a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. the deputy is accused of slander and defamation of prison officials in patras. the charge relates to statements allegedly made by stelios kouloglou to the press in 2010 about the integrity of some members of the staff of patras prison, at a time when he was a journalist and mainly produced television reports. the acts alleged have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member. in this sense, and in accordance with the wishes expressed by the honourable member himself, we voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity. although the applicant has since decided to withdraw his complaint, the termination of the procedure for the suspension of immunity requires a formal decision of the court, which did not take place in time for this plenary session because of the general strike in greece. that is to say, in practice, this case is closed, and this vote is irrelevant.
‒ having regard to the relevant rules of procedure of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou.
‒ i shall vote in favour of this report after all the legal procedures have been completed, because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal action was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
‒ on 7 august 2015, the public prosecutor's office at the supreme court of greece requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou in a legal action in which the said member of the european parliament is accused of slander and defamation of officials of the patras prison. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, article 8 of the protocol does not apply in this case, as the alleged infringement has no relation to stelios kouloglou's term of office as a member of parliament, but rather to his previous position as a television reporter. in these terms, and on the basis of the juri report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of stelios kouloglou.
‒ this is a matter of internal greek justice, unrelated to the status of stelios kouloglou as a member of parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report concerning the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr stelios kouloglou. this is a request made by the public prosecutor's office to the supreme court of greece, concerning a judicial case in which the member is accused of slander and defamation of officials of the patras prison, and these statements allegedly made to the press occurred in 2010, at a time when stelios kouloglou was a journalist and was reporting on television. it is therefore a judicial proceeding concerning conduct allegedly committed outside your mandate as an mep. since there is no reason to doubt the legitimate intention underlying this legal action, i consider that the conditions for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of my colleague, mr stelios kouloglou, are met.
‒ the member is accused of slander and defamation of officials of the patras prison. the charge relates to statements allegedly made by stelios kouloglou to the press in 2010 about the integrity of some members of the staff of patras prison, at a time when he was a journalist and mainly produced television reports. the acts alleged have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for parliamentary immunity of mr stelios kouloglou by the public prosecutor's office of the hellenic republic in the context of a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. the deputy is accused of slander and defamation of prison officials in patras. the charge relates to statements allegedly made by stelios kouloglou to the press in 2010 about the integrity of some members of the staff of patras prison, at a time when he was a journalist and mainly produced television reports. the acts alleged have no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, nor do they constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we voted to lift parliamentary immunity.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 2 623 200 for finland to support the 1603 workers made redundant in 69 companies in the consultancy and computer programming sector.
in writing. the application concerns 1 603 redundant workers in the consulting and computer programming sector in finland. the redundancies occurred in 69 companies, with microsoft mobile accounting for almost half (778). in recent years, employment in the ict sector has declined sharply in the eu as companies and services move to countries such as china, india, taiwan and other destinations outside europe. these effects were particularly felt in finland where the entire electronics industry was severely affected. in total, 69 companies in the software industry ended up laying off workers during the fall of 2014 and spring of 2015. northern ostrobothnia is a region with a high unemployment rate (above the national average). the redundancies also affect workers over the age of 50, a group who have difficulty finding new jobs. we supported the mobilisation of this aid for the workers made redundant. however, this fund is only limited support for those affected by the liberalization of world trade. measures are needed to stop the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of structural change in world trade patterns, can be mobilised if an application is assessed positively. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the egf for finland, since the finnish authorities have provided all the guarantees necessary for the procedure in question.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 6 november 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 69 enterprises operating in the economic sector classified under nace revision 2 division 62 (consulting and related computer programming) in several nuts level 2 regions covering the whole of finland. i am voting in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 623 200 from the egf for finland. this concerns 1 200 of the 1 603 workers made redundant.
in writing. recent developments affecting nokia in recent years, including the relocation of nokia's mobile phone operating system development and design functions to countries outside europe, have had a strong impact on the finnish economy, especially in the important information and communication technology sector. as a result of these problems at nokia, 1 603 workers were made redundant from a universe of 69 companies operating in the economic sector of consultancy and computer programming activities. to address this high level of redundancies in this sector, finland has applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund totalling € 2 623 200 to support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market. as this application fulfils the conditions for the mobilisation of the fund and as the fund is channelled in its entirety towards support for newly unemployed people - in particular coaching, employment services and enterprises, training, recruitment subsidies and entrepreneurship - i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ the redundancies are located in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and pohjois-ja itäsuomi. in recent years, the distribution of ict employment between the eu and other economies has developed negatively for the eu as companies and services have been transferred to countries such as china, india, taiwan and other destinations outside europe. these effects were especially felt in finland where the entire electronics industry was severely affected, culminating in the nokia announcement in 2011. in these circumstances, the consultancy and related computer programming activities sector continued to struggle to remain competitive at world level, even though the main recipient of its services had disappeared. the redundancies also affect workers over 50 years of age, a group that has difficulty finding new jobs, and it may be that by june 2016 more than 50% of these workers will be long-term unemployed.
‒ the application concerns 1 603 redundant workers in the consulting and related computer programming sector. the redundancies are located in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and pohjois-ja itäsuomi. the redundancies occurred in 69 companies, with microsoft mobile accounting for almost half (778). northern ostrobothnia is a region with a high unemployment rate (above the national average). in uusimaa, at the end of february 2015, the unemployed accounted for 11% of the labour force. in the period under review, 49 software companies in the uusimaa region resorted to cooperation negotiations, with the estimated need for 1 681 job cuts. the total contribution requested from the egf amounts to eur 2 623 200 (60% of the total costs). we agree with the mobilisation of this aid, but we still insist that this fund represents only limited support for the main targets with the consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, and that measures are needed to stop the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
‒ the european parliament voted on 25 february 2014 on the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark, which aims to simplify and update trade mark legislation at both national and eu level and to make the registration of trade marks in the eu less burdensome, faster, more reliable and more predictable, thus further increasing legal certainty for trade mark proprietors. this proposal is a regulatory package comprising a recast of directive 2008/95/ec, which approximates the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, a revision of regulation (ec) no 207/2009, which also contains provisions on the office for harmonization in the internal market, and a revision of regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market. i support this report which approves the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the community trade mark regulation, thus following up the long-awaited review of the trade mark system in europe.
in writing. the purpose of these reports is to revise the regulation on community trade marks and the directive relating to the trade mark legislation of the member states. they are part of a package of renewal of the whole brand system at european level. the basic operation of the marking system is as follows: a producer of a good or service who intends to protect the name and general characteristics of his product must register his trademarks at both national and european levels. to do this, you have to register your trademark in national and european registers, defining the name and essential characteristics of your product. each product type is assigned to a 'class' of products. this register protects the producer or company against copying, counterfeiting, unauthorised or unlawful use. the report aims in particular to harmonize, by means of a regulation, the way in which trade marks are registered and protected at european level. among other things, it is expected to significantly reduce the cost of online registration fees for trade marks. the report contains positive aspects, but also others that give rise to reservations, such as the blocking system (which does not exclude generic medicines).
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the recommendation for second reading of the council's position at first reading on the community trade mark regulation. the community trade mark system and the ohim have been in existence for more than 15 years and it is therefore necessary to review the existing rules in order to adapt them to the current reality.
‒ i am in favour of reducing the differences in the trade mark system in europe and of the eu trade mark system and national trade mark systems coexisting in a complementary relationship. i think it is essential to ensure that registered trade marks enjoy the same protection under the legal systems of all the member states. in line with the broad protection afforded to eu trade marks which enjoy a reputation in the union, broad protection at national level should also be granted to all trade marks which enjoy a reputation in the member state concerned. i stress that it will be necessary to modernise trade mark systems in the union in order to meet the increased demands of those concerned for faster, better and more rational trade mark registration systems. by making the trademark systems more efficient, we will be reducing costs, red tape and complexity for businesses, which could mean increased innovation and economic growth.
‒ the trade mark system serves to protect branded products. to this end, a mechanism is being set up which allows companies and member states to block, by means of tailor-made tools and the implementation of tailor-made procedures, the transit of goods from third countries which are allegedly counterfeit. the possibilities for such application are strengthened in this proposal. this can be seen as a positive development for european industries. however, one of our concerns is that generic medicines are not clearly excluded from this possibility, despite the mobilization of associations such as msf.
‒ the purpose of the report is to reformulate the regulation on registered community trade marks and the directive relating to the trade mark legislation of the member states. the express objective is to modernize the procedures for the registration of trade marks and to move from a community approach to the eu approach (in accordance with the implementation of the lisbon treaty) . in principle, this reform will facilitate changes to the nomenclature of the office for harmonization in the internal market, simplify procedures, strengthen the fight against counterfeiting and clarify the form of registration of trademarks. for example, it will reduce the cost of online registration fees for trade marks from eur 950 to eur 850 at eu level. we therefore voted against the rejection of the council's position.
in writing. the purpose of these reports is to revise the regulation on community trade marks and the directive relating to the trade mark legislation of the member states. they are part of a package of renewal of the whole brand system at european level. the basic operation of the marking system is as follows: a producer of a good or service who intends to protect the name and general characteristics of his product must register his trademarks at both national and european levels. to do this, you have to register your trademark in national and european registers, defining the name and essential characteristics of your product. each product type is assigned to a 'class' of products. this register protects the producer or company against copying, counterfeiting, unauthorised or unlawful use. this report aims in particular, through the directive, to approximate national registration systems. among other things, it provides for a simplification of the trademark registration process. on the whole, these reports contain positive aspects, but also others that give rise to reservations, such as the blocking system (which does not exclude generic medicines, despite the appeals of organisations such as médecins sans frontières).
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. it aims to simplify and update trade mark legislation at both national and eu level and to make the registration of trade marks in the eu less costly, faster, more reliable and more predictable, thus further increasing legal certainty for trade mark holders.
‒ the purpose of these reports is to revise the regulation on registered community trade marks and the directive relating to the trade mark legislation of the member states. the basic objective is to modernise the procedures for the registration of trade marks and to move from a community approach to the eu approach (in line with the implementation of the lisbon treaty). the aim is not only to modernise the branding system but also to make it more accessible and efficient in its operation. the protection of industrial and corporate brands is important, but it is also very important that we be careful about the possibility of abuse of the dominant position these brands provide.
‒ the purpose of the report is to reformulate the regulation on registered community trade marks and the directive relating to the trade mark legislation of the member states. the express objective is to modernize the procedures for the registration of trade marks and to move from a community approach to the eu approach (in accordance with the implementation of the lisbon treaty) . in principle, this reform will facilitate changes to the nomenclature of the office for harmonization in the internal market, simplify procedures and strengthen the fight against counterfeiting and clarify the form of registration of trademarks. for example, it will reduce the cost of online registration fees for trade marks from eur 950 to eur 850 at eu level. we therefore voted against the rejection of the council's position.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on the common organisation of the market in fishery products and repealing regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 (oj l 347, 20.12.2010, p. the convention for multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the eu is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. control and enforcement measures may be adopted to ensure the implementation of this convention and the recommendations adopted by neafc. in 2010, the eu transposed into its law the control and enforcement regime adopted by neafc. in 2012 and 2013, neafc adopted recommendations amending the control and enforcement regime to align it with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the measures provided for in this amendment are designed to 'ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, with the expectation of lasting environmental and social results. given the matter at hand and the fact that we are faced with a proposal to amend legislation already adopted, which improves it, we voted in favour.
‒ this proposal aims to amend the eu rules transposing the control and enforcement regime adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc). the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, aims, as stated by the european commission, to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. i consider it important to transpose into eu law the recommendations adopted within neafc, in particular the alignment of the regime with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. i believe that these measures will allow for the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the short adoption periods which hamper the legislative work of parliament and the council and undermine the quality of legislation.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: the protection of the marine environment, the conservation of fishery resources and the protection of the marine environment. this regulatory change follows several recommendations of the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) dated 2012, 2013 and 2015, and it is in the interest of the union as a contracting party that these measures are applied by itself. the guarantee of the applicability of this convention, which incorporates measures involving greater control of fisheries with a view to eliminating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, led me to vote in favour of this report.
‒ i agree with the content of this report. i agree with the alignment of the fao regime on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i also agree that the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits. i support all coordinated efforts to improve fisheries management and combat fraud.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits. the main amendment to regulation no 1236/2010 concerns the alignment of the regime with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits. we note with disapproval the increasing tendency of the commission to submit to the two co-legislators proposals for the transposition of recommendations from international organisations with such short adoption times that they complicate the legislative work of parliament and the council, which have to take account of the time limits imposed by their respective internal procedures. all this is detrimental to the quality of legislation.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on the common organisation of the market in fishery products and repealing regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 (oj l 347, 20.12.2010, p. the convention for multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the eu is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. control and enforcement measures may be adopted to ensure the implementation of this convention and the recommendations adopted by neafc. in 2010, the eu transposed into its law the control and enforcement regime adopted by neafc. in 2012 and 2013, neafc adopted recommendations amending the control and enforcement regime to align it with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the measures provided for in this amendment are designed to 'ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, with the expectation of lasting environmental and social results. given the matter at hand and the fact that we are faced with a proposal to amend legislation already adopted, which improves it, we voted in favour.
‒ this report constitutes an element of pressure and interference on bosnia-herzegovina. in line with the process of enlargement of the eu to the east, and in particular to the balkan region, the eu is seeking to impose neo-liberal policies and guidelines on these countries, in this case free trade. the threat of suspension of unilateral trade preferences opens another chapter in the process of eu interference and destabilisation in the region, seeking to force bosnia and herzegovina to accept the interim preferential trade agreement, as already agreed with croatia following its accession to the eu on 1 july 2013, under the central european free trade agreement (cefta). the document is very enlightening when it states that these conditions "should be accepted as an impetus to accelerate the transition of the political and socioeconomic reforms highlighted in the 'growth pact'" with a view to "compliance by the western balkan countries with the copenhagen criteria and the acquis communautaire". we therefore voted against.
‒ the commission's proposal to extend the autonomous trade measures in favour of the western balkan countries and territories participating in the stabilisation and association process (sap) for a further five-year period, until 31 december 2020, was welcomed. it is further noted that regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 does not provide for any possibility to temporarily suspend the granting of exceptional trade measures in the event of serious and systematic violations of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law by their beneficiaries and it is therefore appropriate to introduce such a possibility. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. i consider it important that the recommendations adopted within neafc be transposed into eu law, in particular to align the regime with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. i believe that these measures will allow for the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the short adoption periods which hamper the legislative work of parliament and the council and undermine the quality of legislation.
‒ this report confirms the progress of european integration in the balkan countries, in particular through the granting of unilateral trade preferences. the aim of the document is to open a new chapter in the process of european union interference and destabilisation in the region by forcing bosnia and herzegovina to accept the interim preferential trade agreement, as already agreed with croatia following its accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, in the framework of the central european free trade agreement (cefta). in this respect, the document is very enlightening when it states that the conditions 'should be accepted as an impetus to accelerate the transition of the political and socioeconomic reforms highlighted in the 'growth pact'' with a view to 'compliance by the western balkan countries with the copenhagen criteria and the acquis communautaire'.
‒ this report confirms the progress of european integration in the balkan countries, in particular through the granting of unilateral trade preferences. the aim of the document is to open a new chapter in the process of european union interference and destabilisation in the region by forcing bosnia and herzegovina to accept the interim preferential trade agreement, as already agreed with croatia following its accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, in the framework of the central european free trade agreement (cefta). in this respect, the document is very enlightening when it states that the conditions 'should be accepted as an impetus to accelerate the transition of the political and socioeconomic reforms highlighted in the 'growth pact'' with a view to the 'compliance by the western balkan countries with the copenhagen criteria and the acquis communautaire'. i therefore vote against.
‒ europol, as an information analysis centre which aims to provide support to the member states, has a range of instruments at its disposal, including cooperation with third countries through cooperation agreements. parliament is only entitled to give its opinion for the time being. the agreement with the united arab emirates is of particular importance in the area of fraud and financial crime. as a growing global financial hub, it seems pretty obvious to me that it is. however, cooperation is two-way, and it is equally important not to transfer personal data, thus ensuring that the fundamental rights of european citizens are not violated. the rapporteur rightly suggests that the commission should review this in the light of europol's future legal basis. i therefore support the conclusion of the agreement in the terms proposed.
‒ this report proposes the establishment of a cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. the information exchanged may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on both criminal investigation processes and crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. while not recognising the authority and competence of europol to act on behalf of the member states in this matter, it is at the very least cynical to suggest that the european union - the second largest arms exporter to the middle east - and the united arab emirates - a supplier of arms to terrorist groups which have served destabilising purposes in syria - are in a position to wage some serious and consequential 'fight' against 'serious crime' and 'terrorism'. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the united arab emirates, according to europol, is of growing importance in the fight against organised crime, as it is increasingly becoming a platform for economic and financial crime. i voted in favour of the report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol.
‒ this proposal aims at the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the european police office (europol) and the united arab emirates. the united arab emirates, according to europol, is of increasing importance in the fight against organised crime as it is increasingly becoming a platform for economic and financial crime, in particular capital derived from criminal activities such as value added tax (vat) fraud, intra-community shell operator fraud (icmt), money laundering and as the main criminals involved in these frauds seek refuge there. i agree with the rapporteur's position, since the conclusion of the agreement will contribute to and strengthen the fight against financial fraud, and will also help to intensify international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant areas in criminal matters.
‒ this agreement provides for strategic cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates. a strategic agreement of this nature excludes the exchange of personal data, so that the issue of data protection is not relevant in the present case. the information exchanged may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on both criminal investigation processes and crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. according to europol, the uae is of increasing importance in the fight against organised crime as it is increasingly becoming a platform for economic and financial crime.
‒ the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates provides for an increased exchange of information that can integrate expertise on issues important for the fight against organised crime. europol's joint work with the united arab emirates (uae) is key to tackling global economic and financial crime, which, while it does not choose countries or borders, prefers the fastest growing economies and where liquidity levels are highest, such as the uae, as its initial gateway into the system. i therefore think it is important to support this legislative resolution, since this agreement should make a direct contribution to the fight against financial fraud and to the promotion of international cooperation in the field of economic and financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
‒ we have always been critical of the institution of europol since its creation (july 1999). we have always denounced the potential encroachment on individual freedoms through the manipulation of personal data. this organisation, formed outside any parliamentary or judicial control, reflects more broadly the democratic deficit of this european union. it is deeply hypocritical to maintain cooperation agreements with the united arab emirates on the fight against terrorism, while the eu is the second largest arms exporter in the region. while journalists, investigative reports and other studies (including ngos) demonstrate that these same weapons are now being sold to fundamentalist and terrorist rebel groups, the stated objective of this report is to fight these same groups. the uae is one of the main financial supporters of terrorism (along with saudi arabia, turkey and qatar).
‒ this report proposes the establishment of a cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. the information exchanged may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on both criminal investigation processes and crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. while not recognizing the authority and competence of europol to act on behalf of the member states in this matter, it is also cynical to suggest that the european union - the second largest arms exporter to the middle east - and the united arab emirates - a supplier of arms to 'terrorist' groups - will be in a position to wage a serious and consequential 'fight' against 'serious crime' and 'terrorism'. this report covers up the support this country gives to terrorist groups. i therefore vote against.
‒ european energy policy must ensure the functioning of the energy market, security of energy supply, promote energy efficiency and energy savings, develop renewable energies and promote the interconnection of energy networks. the existence of 28 energy hubs, the high level of total energy imports (53%), especially oil and natural gas, and the dependence of some states on a single supplier place the eu in a position of vulnerability and supply disruptions to the taste of political and trade divergences. i support the gróbarczyk report for its view that there is an urgent need to create a true resilient energy union, with a forward-looking climate change policy based on the transition to an efficient sustainable energy system, with smart and interconnected infrastructure, with renewable energy and better use of europe's energy resources. special attention should be paid to decarbonising our economy and setting binding climate and energy targets by 2030, as well as to a strong focus on research and innovation so that we can take the lead in energy technologies. putting citizens at the heart of the energy union means giving them safe, sustainable and affordable energy sources!
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the original text of paragraph 134 because i believe that the text is unclear and leads to a false answer, especially for those who, like me, believe that shale gas extraction should be stopped in favour of cleaner alternative energy sources. i also abstained on amendment no 80 because the text is not clear as to its objectives. i do, however, state my total opposition to the nuclear option.
in writing. ‒ the so-called 'european energy union' is a tailor-made project for the major european monopolies in the sector, and it is certainly not out of proportion to say that documents such as this report are, in essence, their specifications. the energy sector is liberalised and privatised in the various member states, and then it is said that energy must be accessible to all and that energy poverty must be tackled. is there a greater contradiction? the liberalization of this sector within the single market has led to the creation of transnational private monopolies which colonize markets and accumulate prodigious profits, while energy prices for consumers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises reach unbearable levels. the disparity in energy access and prices is growing. only a publicly owned and managed energy sector can guarantee affordable energy prices for the population and maintain sovereignty in the definition of national energy strategies. the appropriate response to energy efficiency improvements, diversification of sources, progress towards renewables, and the fight against energy poverty, among other challenges, requires public, democratic planning and control of the energy sector, energy production and distribution. something this report cannot and will not reflect. on the contrary, i did. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european council's proposal to achieve a minimum level of electricity interconnection between member states of 15% by 2030. it is essential to end the energy isolation, the so-called energy islands. the iberian peninsula can play a decisive role in the establishment of a european energy union. i voted in favour.
‒ in accordance with article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, european energy policy shall ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, and the promotion of energy efficiency and energy savings. i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to increase energy security by reducing dependence on russia, to improve energy efficiency by focusing heavily on renewable energy and to deepen the european energy interconnection market, in particular by improving the iberian links to france. we must therefore diversify sources of supply, established routes and types of energy production and support people and businesses in providing their homes or businesses with better environmental conditions, as well as effectively investing in electric cars and innovative methods of electricity production.
in writing. on a subject as wide-ranging and complex as the energy union, and very specifically on this own-initiative report - with which i broadly agree - i would like to highlight some aspects which i consider relevant (having in mind the commission communication entitled 'a framework strategy for a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy'). the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle that is enshrined in the treaty of rome. secondly, the importance of fully integrating the iberian peninsula into the internal electricity market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change, in particular the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and the implementation of the union's policy on climate change. finally, the importance of having a common external energy policy which is perfectly coordinated and in tune with the common foreign and security policy.
‒ the so-called 'european energy union' is based on the privatisation and liberalisation of national energy sectors. we are well aware of the consequences of the liberalization of this sector in the single market, with the creation of transnational monopolies that exploit the energy consumption markets and accumulate prodigious profits, while energy prices for consumers and for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises reach unbearable levels that increasingly limit the existing disparity in access to and prices for energy. only a state-owned and managed public energy sector will ensure affordable energy prices for the population and the maintenance of sovereignty in the definition of national energy strategies. the response to energy efficiency improvements, the diversification of sources, progress towards renewable energy, the appropriate use of each country's endogenous potential, security of supply, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, among others, require public, democratic planning and control of the energy sector, energy production and distribution.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'towards a european energy union' because i consider that its current absence reflects the fragmentation of the union's energy markets and is extremely damaging to europe's competitiveness and security. as such, i believe that the political and legislative package on which the creation of a european energy union is based will be important for the development of a european energy market, which will have as its central priorities the focus on renewable energy, the guarantee and diversification of the union's energy supply, the strengthening of energy sovereignty, the increase in energy efficiency and the progressive decarbonisation of the economy and social organisation models and the focus on innovation and research to put the union at the forefront of the energy transition. however, for the eu to continue to lead the energy transition, it needs political intelligence, the mobilisation of citizens and businesses, regulatory flexibility, convergence of efforts among the 28 member states and the ability to attract investment. only then will we be able to establish a robust and credible european energy market, which is less dependent, innovative and in line with the planet's sustainability challenges.
‒ the so-called 'european energy union' is a tailor-made project for the major european monopolies in the sector, and it is certainly not disproportionate to say that documents such as this report are, in fact, their specifications. the energy sector is liberalised and privatised in the various member states, and then it is said that energy must be accessible to all and that energy poverty must be tackled. is there a greater contradiction? the liberalization of this sector within the single market has led to the creation of transnational private monopolies which colonize markets and accumulate prodigious profits, while energy prices for consumers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises reach unbearable levels. the disparity in energy access and prices is growing. we voted against it.
‒ the existence of an internal market for the free movement of energy and the increase in renewable sources and energy and an optimal level of energy efficiency are key requirements for the eu to have a stable, secure, dependent energy system in the framework of a sustainable and future-oriented wealth-creating economy. electricity interconnection is one of the essential preconditions for the completion of an integrated internal energy market which goes beyond any purely economic and geopolitical vision but is embodied in a strategic principle of a more resilient and robust network, environmentally friendly and able to cope with all types of disturbances. i support the eriksson report because it considers it important to achieve the 10% target by 2020 and that, in addition to the quantitative target, progress is made in the free access and availability of interconnections, which are indispensable for the elimination of the remaining obstacles to the functioning of the market. i deplore the behaviour of some member states in pursuing these principles, blocking the interconnection of networks for reasons of protectionism on their market, thus creating energy islands, as in the case of the iberian peninsula, whose capacity with continental europe is too small and the current projects of common interest are not sufficient to achieve the interconnection target by 2020.
‒ it is imperative to reach 10% of installed generation capacity in the short term and 15% by 2030 as a minimum interconnection target. this priority was agreed by the european commission, the council and this parliament in the previous legislature. i am therefore sorry that the eriksson report under discussion today seems to call this priority into question. we are constantly witnessing the persistence of what is a market failure, and we have an obligation to engage politically in resolving it, without giving in to the vested interests which for years, or even decades, have prevented a proper integration of the energy market. failure to do so would condemn several member states to their peripheral position, not only in energy terms but also economically. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments which point to ways of strengthening that objective.
‒ the advantages of interconnecting electricity networks to enable interoperability between the various member states are important for all the potential reasons outlined in this resolution. however, as a significant part of the costs of interconnections and the systems associated with them in each state is borne by consumers in those states, it is essential to ensure that the potential benefits are realised and outweigh the potential disadvantages. it is therefore necessary that, once the objectives have been set, the effects of the resulting actions be carefully weighed. these are questions which, unfortunately, are not dealt with in this report. portugal, which has been diligently implementing the eu energy guidelines, has borne and bears the heavy costs of this implementation, but still fails to see the benefits claimed, especially in the price of electricity it costs, which has a severe impact on households and businesses, especially smes. it would be important to correct the distortions observed and to ensure the protection of consumers and economies, especially those most in need of stimulus. it will be necessary to ensure that interconnections and market mechanisms do not render investment in renewable energy useless (the surpluses of french nuclear will certainly be more competitive) and that national consumers do not heavily subsidize these renewable energies in order to make them competitive on the european market.
‒ electricity interconnection is one of the essential preconditions for the completion of an integrated internal energy market. in this context, it is essential to strengthen the interconnection between the iberian peninsula and the rest of europe, allowing the region to participate fully in the internal electricity market. i would also stress the important role that the iberian peninsula region can play in the establishment and creation of a genuine european energy union, particularly through the key role of the development of renewable energies. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix lead to energy savings that improve the quality of life of citizens and the competitiveness of european businesses. the free movement of energy and the future completion of the energy union are important means of ensuring that the eu has a stable, secure and independent energy system. i am voting in favour of this report to safeguard the energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france, in order to support renewable energy in the region and to allow the iberian peninsula to participate fully in the internal electricity market. i recall the madrid declaration signed on 4 march 2015 and the creation of a high level group for south-west europe on interconnections as important steps towards increasing the interconnection of the region and i urge the european authorities to decisively support this future energy interconnection, which is central to portugal's development. i urge the countries of the region to support the development of their considerable renewable energy potential and to facilitate the sector's access to the integrated european market.
‒ like the resolution on the energy union, this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, is also intended to support a commission position - in this case, the position expressed in the commission communication entitled 'achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target - preparing the european electricity grid for 2020'. like the rapporteur, i too believe that this interconnection target is an important step in the right direction, and a key step towards the completion of an integrated european energy market in the future. i would also stress that qualitative objectives are just as important or even more important than quantitative ones - and i am referring in particular to the compatibility of interconnectors and the national networks themselves and their accessibility. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy, including the implementation of the eu's energy strategy, the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and the implementation of the eu's energy strategy.
‒ the main objective of an internal energy policy should be to contain the costs to the consumer by limiting unnecessary investment and subsidizing the various types of production. it is essential that european energy policy in the near future contributes to correcting the distortions that have occurred. although we support some of the aims set out in the motion for a resolution and most of the concerns it raises, we insist on protecting consumers and economies, especially those most in need of stimulus. it is necessary to ensure that interconnections and market mechanisms do not render the investment in rdf useless, since the surpluses of french nuclear production will certainly be much more competitive, and that national consumers do not heavily subsidize rdf in order to make it competitive on the european market.
‒ i voted in favour of the report achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target preparing the european electricity grid for 2020because i consider that electricity interconnection is one of the essential preconditions for the completion of an internal energy market, without which there can be no energy union. the internal energy market will, i am sure, help the union to achieve its climate objectives, particularly in the field of renewable energy, and improve its geopolitical position through greater energy security and independence, helping to reduce the energy isolation of certain regions. the 10% target for 2020 is a valid target and an important step in the right direction and could be used as a mandatory criterion for the validation of national energy programmes. however, this is not an objective in itself appropriate to the actual situation of the 28 energy markets, and more efforts will be needed to assist those countries whose low level of interconnection limits the achievement of the internal electricity market, such as those in the iberian peninsula. it is therefore important that the commission considers setting complementary regional targets and that the adequacy of the 15% target for 2030 is assessed.
‒ the advantages of interconnecting electricity networks to enable interoperability between the various member states are important for all the potential reasons outlined in this resolution. however, as a significant part of the costs of interconnections and the systems associated with them in each state are borne by consumers in those states, it is essential to ensure that the potential benefits are realised and outweigh the potential disadvantages. it is therefore necessary that, once the objectives have been set, the effects of the resulting actions be carefully weighed. these are questions which, unfortunately, are not dealt with in this report. it will be necessary to ensure that interconnections and market mechanisms do not render investment in renewable energy useless (the surpluses of french nuclear will certainly be more competitive) and that national consumers do not heavily subsidize these renewable energies in order to make them competitive on the european market.
‒ in 2010, the european union set up the european progress microfinance facility with the aim of ensuring that socially and economically disadvantaged people have an opportunity to build a decent income. progress is an important and effective tool for achieving the eu's employment and social policy objectives under the europe 2020 strategy: a significant number of new jobs are created by newly created companies. almost 85% of these jobs are created by micro enterprises. thus, there is a strong demand for microcredit by people who cannot obtain a loan in the traditional banking sector. progress helps to unlock entrepreneurial potential, to find new skills through training and mentoring, and to enable people to return to the labour market and live with dignity and autonomy. microcredit should be seen as a social policy instrument to give an opportunity to people in difficult social situations. the maximum amounts of microcredit/loans that can be accessed should be reconsidered, as they may not be sufficient in all eu countries. i therefore support this report.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because of the positive effects of the granting of microcredit under the progress microfinance facility, which ends in 2016. progress is the only eu financial instrument that is based solely on the social conditions of applicants rather than promoting entrepreneurship and innovation in the european business fabric, focusing on supporting socially and economically disadvantaged people in europe (unemployed, young, elderly) by helping them to get out of their situation by granting micro-credit to enable them to set up their own businesses. in view of the positive results of a key instrument for eu employment and social policy, and in view of the fact that a new microfinance programme for the 2014-2020 cycle (easi microfinance axis) was established based on the positive experience of progress, it can be concluded that the programme has met its objectives and therefore received my vote in favour.
‒ microfinance is the set of financial services for individuals and smes with limited access to bank credit and associated services. in the eu this instrument has been used in policies for job creation, social inclusion and gender equality. this report assesses the implementation of progress (launched in 2010) and its impact. the use of microcredit has been limited, with a high number of projects not approved; information on this mechanism does not reach its potential beneficiaries; their effectiveness in the context of territorial cohesion is questionable. the report seeks to address these weaknesses. training of those involved, greater territorial dispersion and a greater focus on cohesion, project information and programme evaluation processes are some of the issues addressed. the emphasis on solutions such as micro-credit, entrepreneurship, etc., as a way of solving unemployment, exclusion, inequality and the economic crisis is fallacious and dangerous, because it removes the responsibility of the states. this does not mean that there can be no support for the creation or revitalisation of enterprises, but it does not limit real solutions to social problems. the report does not emphasize microfinance as an absolute solution. we have therefore voted in favour.
‒ the european progress microfinance facility aims to ensure that economically and socially disadvantaged people in europe have an opportunity, whether it is to set up new businesses, to promote new jobs or to ensure that the unemployed and micro-enterprises can access finance. this european instrument is important for achieving the union's objectives in the field of employment and social policy, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on its implementation.
‒ the european microfinance facility progress was set up in 2010 with the aim of ensuring that socially and economically disadvantaged people in europe have an opportunity to build a decent income. it is important to stress that progress has a social dimension and facilitates access to microcredit for the creation or support of micro-enterprises and is an important and effective instrument for achieving the european union's employment and social policy objectives under the europe 2020 strategy. i would highlight the social benefits that progress provides, namely helping people to (re) enter the labour market, unlocking entrepreneurial potential, finding new skills through the training and supervision provided and enabling people to live with dignity and autonomy. i advocate the continuation of progress, its availability in all member states, and that the initiatives and funding available for the provision of micro-credit to innovative youth-led startups should be doubled in order to support young entrepreneurship and technological innovation.
‒ the objective of this instrument is to increase access to and availability of microfinance for people who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs, for people who have difficulties entering or re-entering the labour market, as well as for those who face the threat of social exclusion or are in a vulnerable or disadvantaged situation with regard to access to the conventional credit market and who wish to set up or continue to develop their own micro-enterprises, including self-employment. this is an essential instrument to increase the access to and availability of microfinance for microenterprises and thus to boost the social economy.
‒ after identifying the positive effects on the local economy of micro-credit to combat poverty in developing countries, the eu set up the european microfinance facility progress in 2010, with the main objective of ensuring that the most economically and socially disadvantaged citizens have an opportunity to create their own source of income. this financing, which is not intended to support micro-enterprises directly but intermediaries, is intended to increase their access to loans through improved guarantees. this not only helps to make potential entrepreneurs viable, but also contributes to the development of new skills through training/support for these citizens. the instrument is aimed at unemployed people, citizens claiming social security benefits, immigrants and people who cannot obtain conventional bank loans, and it is an important socio-political instrument, since it grants loans of up to eur 25 000. this report on the implementation of 'progress', which i voted for, shows that it is an important and effective instrument for achieving the eu's employment and social policy objectives, but as described in the report, it lacks greater visibility and more detailed implementation reports from the commission.
in writing. ‒ we value this programme and are in favour of strengthening this microfinance mechanism. unfortunately, the potential of this programme is not being properly exploited. this is largely due to a common problem in eu programmes - the lack of information and ways of supporting those concerned. it is often those who are least excluded who have the information and end up benefiting from this possibility of applying for microcredit. we agree with the logic of the report, which does not emphasize the solution of microfinance as an absolute solution to solve social and economic problems, as many emphasize. this logic is fallacious and dangerous - it puts social equity and development policies in the hands of the greater or lesser success of individuals, while relieving states of their responsibilities. microfinance yes, but without replacing the social functions of the states.
‒ microfinance is the set of financial services for individuals and smes with limited access to bank credit and associated services. in developed countries, especially in the eu, this instrument has been used in policies for job creation, social inclusion and gender equality, notably through the european progress microfinance instrument, launched in 2010, which funds credit intermediaries to increase the number of projects and improve the conditions under which those accessing credit can obtain these loans. this instrument aims to distribute 46000 microcredits by 2020, with a total budget of eur 500 million. this report assesses the implementation of progress and its impact in the eu. the use of microcredit has been limited, with a high number of projects not being approved; information on this mechanism does not reach its potential beneficiaries; its effectiveness in the context of territorial cohesion is questionable, when the instrument covers only 20 countries; there are many sectors that are part of the exclusion map that do not use this mechanism. we agree with this assessment and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
‒ we generally support proposals aimed at simplifying legislation, involving fishermen in the definition of fisheries policies, particularly at regional level, improving fishing gear by increasing its selectivity, and a sustainable approach to stock management. technical measures and multiannual plans are useful tools with potential in fisheries management. the multiannual plans have the advantage, in general terms, of allowing some stability and predictability to a sector that is hardly affected by any major instability. but these plans must be part of a local management system which involves the sector and in which the member states play a leading role. the strict alignment and submission of these plans to the constraints imposed by the common fisheries policy (cfp) compromises much of their potential and accentuates limitations and disadvantages. this happens to be the dominant view throughout this report - the advocacy of strict submission to the new cfp. we, for our part, believe that a fundamental change must be made to the existing institutional framework, which, since the treaty of lisbon, has enshrined the management of living marine resources as an exclusive competence of the eu. the disastrous results of this centralized management are in sight. that is why we abstained.
‒ since 2009, there has been almost no progress in the legislative processes on technical measures and multiannual plans, which are very important instruments for achieving the objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy. i have voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on this subject.
in writing. the new common fisheries policy entered into force on 1 january 2014 following the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) presented in april 2009. the new cfp aims to ensure optimal exploitation of the species caught - at least at levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield (msy) - by implementing an ecosystem approach that ensures minimal negative impacts of fishing activity on the marine ecosystem itself. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, shows that, in the context of the practical implementation of the new cfp, there is an objective need to apply technical measures in a coherent, simplified and geared to the type of fisheries and the region on the one hand, and on the other hand, the absolute need to 'enhance the involvement of stakeholders through the advisory councils and in all decisions concerning [their] regionalisation' when defining and implementing the multiannual plans. it also recalls that the landing obligation is a rather radical change for the fisheries sector, which requires an adaptation of technical measures to allow its effective application (e.g. granting greater flexibility to nets, as described in the report).
‒ i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, on the work he has done on this report. we may not agree with some of the details in this report, but we are in complete agreement with the need to preserve the sustainability of fishermen, marine resources and marine ecosystems. as the report argues, fisheries management in europe must follow the new common fisheries policy and must accommodate the marine strategy framework directive. this is a particularly important and repeatedly disregarded subject. at the same time, i disagree with the report that says that all catches must be landed in port in 2019, because that is not true. only catches of species with defined quotas shall be obliged to land in port.
‒ the advantage of multiannual plans in general terms is that they allow some stability and predictability to a sector that is hardly affected by any major instability. unfortunately, the institutional framework in force since the lisbon treaty, which enshrines the management of living marine resources as an exclusive competence of the european union, imposes a centralised management of fisheries policy, far removed from reality, which does not take into account the enormous diversity of the sector (in terms of resources, fleets, fishing gear and fisheries) and makes local management unfeasible, thus taking away much of the advantages that such multiannual plans could bring to the sector.
‒ we generally support proposals aimed at simplifying legislation, involving fishermen in the definition of fisheries policies, particularly at regional level, improving fishing gear by increasing its selectivity, and a sustainable approach to stock management. technical measures and multiannual plans are useful tools with potential in fisheries management. the multiannual plans have the advantage, in general terms, of allowing some stability and predictability to a sector that is hardly affected by any major instability. but these plans must be part of a local management system which involves the sector and in which the member states play a leading role. the strict alignment and submission of these plans to the constraints imposed by the common fisheries policy (cfp) compromises much of their potential and accentuates limitations and disadvantages. this happens to be the dominant view throughout this report - the advocacy of strict submission to the new cfp. that is why we abstained.
madam president, commissioner avramopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the european commission on what seems to be another courageous proposal. europe's response to this refugee crisis has been slow and below what is needed. much of it is the council's fault. the consequences of this inaction were many, even tragic, but one of the most obvious was that it called into question one of the greatest successes of european integration: the schengen area. i have said from the beginning that we had to respond to the humanitarian emergency and find solutions to the underlying problems. we need instruments to deal with crises, but also to better ensure the integrity of the schengen area. and we cannot forget that all of this is based on mutual trust. those who ignore european solidarity and express nationalist sentiments, but also those who think that the solution lies in ignoring the involvement of the member states, are doomed to failure. mutual trust is what we need, because we need a union that can respond to challenges. with pragmatism and with a will to act.
madam president, a few years ago, in a report i authored, this parliament called for the creation of a european coast guard, but the member states excluded it from the european maritime safety strategy, hostage to an outdated view of national sovereignty. the creation of a european coast guard is now being announced by means of a reform of frontex, but the experience of our navies in this field is still not being articulated and frontex has not even been sufficiently strengthened as the plan for opening up hot spots had envisaged. commissioner, i am concerned that all this is being driven by the desire to prevent the entry of refugees and migrants and to return people who ask us for protection. if this package of measures is to strengthen european cooperation, it must assert the union's responsibilities in protecting human rights, including those of refugees and migrants, which no security measure, particularly in the field of counterterrorism, can justify violating. we must have the historic responsibility to manage this crisis by doing what the member states have refused to do and which could actually significantly improve border enforcement, namely opening legal and safe avenues to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the european union's reaction is most shameful. in fact, it's very much in keeping with his nature. you don't want to save and welcome immigrants, among whom are refugees, of course! they just worry about putting up more barriers and walls. what is the difference between this policy and that of orban? this proposal simply wants to strengthen the mechanisms for expulsion, to give frontex faster access to data on migrants so that it can expel them more quickly, to put its agents everywhere, even without the permission of the member states, to take corrective action, whatever that is. on the other hand, it takes away from the member states even more of their sovereignty and the possibility of managing their borders in a more humane way. it is this policy and this supremacy complex of the european union that is fuelling xenophobia and racism. social integration is the best weapon to fight them.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the agreement on global warming reached in paris, which limits global warming to two degrees with a view to not exceeding 1.5 degrees. this represents a crucial step for humanity and for the planet. this is a landmark achievement, covering 195 countries for the first time. i congratulate the commissioner on his excellent work, as does our president la via. that said, it is true that the agreement could and should be more ambitious. scientific data indicates that we need to decarbonise our economy as early as 2050, and yet quantitative targets for emissions reductions have been removed from the agreement. it is also regrettable that no reference is made to the maritime and aviation sectors, whose emissions are expected to increase in the coming years. we must now make a serious effort to implement this agreement and the transparency of this process and the periodic review mechanism are essential. i hope that each nation can now step up its national contribution to the immediate move away from coal-fired electricity generation and to the promotion of electric mobility and energy efficiency. the fight against global warming is a race against time, and the paris treaty was just a starting gun.
mr president, at the time of the adoption of the paris agreement, the conditions were not met which would allow us to assume that its objectives could be achieved. far from it. however ambitious these objectives may seem, without reliable means of achieving them, they cannot be taken seriously. this is one of the great failures of paris. despite the insistence of several countries, particularly in latin america, on criticism of market mechanisms and so-called flexibility mechanisms, these are at the heart of this agreement. these are mechanisms which have proved perverse and ineffective in achieving emission reductions, but which serve the business prospects of some. this is what it's all about, gentlemen, business, not environmental goals! as for the financing of adaptation and mitigation, another handful of nothing. the unwillingness to lift barriers such as intellectual property rights shows where the millions from the green fund will go in the name of so-called technology transfer. the enthusiasm surrounding the outcome of cop 21 must therefore be tempered by reality.
mr president, we should welcome the decisive commitment made at cop 21, an ambitious approach to the security of the planet. we had to wait about 65 years when, for the first time, an oceanographer said that we were subjecting the planet to a geophysical experiment of releasing sequestered carbon, the results of which would be disastrous. finally, we have the recognition of an ambitious and binding agreement. the objective of limiting the temperature increase to 1.5° is indicative of this determination. monitoring of the efforts of individual states to reduce greenhouse gases is essential. let's not forget that there are still economic and corporate interests out there who see short-term opportunities in global warming. some applaud the melting as an opportunity for more natural resources, including fossils. the central issue is urgent mitigation. we must therefore keep the flame of this difficult global agreement burning. this is the last chance for us to work together to make the adoption process work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mrs dodds and mr niedermayer, for their work. it was a very good piece of work and here all the important issues we want to deal with in the area of corporate taxation are addressed in this report. in fact, this report too is exactly in line with everything that has been done by this parliament and the taxe committee to promote a fundamental change in direct taxation policy at european level. direct taxes on companies, of course. there is complete consistency between these two texts, and that must continue to be the case with regard to any new legislation that is produced, and we hope that tomorrow's vote will also be a strong majority vote on this report. these two reports are already cornerstones of our agenda and will serve as a blueprint for the political pressure we must continue to exert to ensure that companies pay their fair share of taxes in the european union. (i think i have two minutes, mr president.) we hope that after the taxe report, parliament's formal support for this legislative initiative will in fact lead the commission to continue to produce the legislative texts it has committed itself to and also lead the council to get out of the untenable position of resorting to unanimity to never move on taxation, in particular the obligation to report from country to country, public, corporate profits and taxes paid in each country, the immediate establishment of a consolidated basis as mandatory for corporate income taxes, the creation of a list of tax havens with sanctions for companies using them, the protection of whistleblowers, the automatic exchange of information between member states on advance tax agreements, the obligation for governments to notify all new tax measures adopted at national level. these are just a few examples of a new agenda that europe must necessarily implement.
i was in beijing a month ago with a delegation from the libe commission to talk about data protection, cybersecurity, drug trafficking and other forms of organized crime coming from or passing through china. i am convinced of the importance of continuing the dialogue and diversifying contacts in chinese society, as proposed in this report by mr belder. we are interested in a loyal strategic relationship with beijing, also because of the global security challenges to which china must contribute in a constructive and consistent way with its obligations under international law and agreements with the european union. that is why we cannot refrain from calling on beijing to abandon internal censorship and repression of the tibetan and uighur minorities, christians, falun gong followers and others. china has 23 journalists in prison, and the trial of lawyer pu zhiqiang is just the latest case in which the regime has shot human rights activists in the foot in an attempt to silence them. it is precisely because of its permanent seat on the security council that china's credibility in global security and stability begins in the very region in which it is embedded, the south seas, the korean peninsula... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the philosophical and political principles which inspire the european project place a special responsibility on the european union to deal with a matter of this nature and importance. this report is of such a quality that it is up to the standards of this parliament. it contains a number of useful recommendations which could help to ensure that an action plan can emerge from the istanbul summit that is applicable and accepted by all actors and that has a useful link with other documents that are already being put into practice, such as the post-2015 development agenda and the conclusions recently adopted at cop 21 in paris. it is also important to ensure that humanitarian aid always respects the principles of neutrality, impartiality, independence and humanity, and that this forms the basis of all decisions taken at the summit, as is clearly proposed in this report, the quality of which i would like to stress once again.
madam president, let me say that in countries like my own, portugal, the term 'labour mobility' is a clever euphemism in the vocabulary of the european union to refer to a harsh reality. it's called emigration. some 500 000 portuguese have emigrated in the last four years, mainly young people looking for work and for at least decent employment which they cannot find in their own country. countries like mine have invested millions in training young people who are now putting their precious skills to work in countries like the uk, germany, belgium and elsewhere. countries which often exploit the labour force coming from my country, cheap labour, workers in unworthy conditions, but who at least have a job they could not find in their own country. but these are the problems that have to be solved. it is a matter of separate lives and families, of countries condemned to dependence and to mortgage their development possibilities. no matter how clever your rhetoric, the reality doesn't change. we want more rights in other countries, but also jobs with rights in our own countries.
madam president, commissioner, the mobility of workers in the european union is now playing a key role. it's challenge and solution. i am therefore calling for a new approach to the problem of the internal market, because it is one of the key elements for achieving one of the real aims of this europe of the citizens, a europe without frontiers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is urgent to make this process fairer and to ensure that mobile workers in the european union are not abused. we cannot be held back by the difficulties, nor give in to any form of pressure by those whose sole aim is to destroy the unity of our europe, or who blame it for their failure in national governance. it is therefore urgent that we are able to launch an effective labour mobility package that ensures the most fundamental labour rights for mobile workers. it is necessary to ensure that they have decent working conditions, that they have access to healthcare and social protection systems in the host member states and that in future their pensions reflect all their life's work. commissioner, given that reforms of labour legislation are needed to guarantee these benefits, it is necessary to link this package with the exclusive competences of the member states. i'd like to know how you intend to make this joint.
mr president, the european project is confronted with several crises, and we need a paradigm shift that is based on the very clear idea that we have reached a point where only real european solutions can work. it is up to the commission, the members of the european parliament and the members of the european council to tell this to the citizens. many of them cannot understand how we have reached this point. we need to protect the schengen area by building up a real european border, manage migration and the hosting of refugees, cope with pressures from the big powers such as china, and overcome the eurozone crisis. i would like make a final remark on the roadmap to completing economic and monetary union. if you want this roadmap to work, you need to make sure that upward economic and social convergence will be properly supported by a banking union and a fiscal capacity.
blue-card question.– i have no doubt that you are a committed european and i very much agree with what you said that there should be no exploitation of fear when dealing with the fight against terrorism and, at the same time, our responsibility to welcome refugees or migrants. but that is not what mr tusk has been doing when he made these nasty statements about the need to have migrants and refugees in detention for over 18 months. i did not hear anyone from any political family repudiate that – or is it just a nasty competition between him and another nasty donald?
mr president, first of all i would like to make it clear that the position of the commission and in particular of its president here today on schengen is absolutely fundamental and i hope that the council will be able to follow this position. this declaration by president juncker that he will under no circumstances accept a limitation and a conditioning of schengen is as important as the declaration by president draghi when he said that he would not let the euro fall under any circumstances and would do whatever was necessary to keep the euro. schengen and the euro are two fundamental pillars of the european union and the european council must give as strong signals as the commission has been able to give. i would also like to touch on another point which has not been dealt with well here today and which has to do with the deepening of economic and monetary union. the commission is already taking steps towards the third pillar of the banking union - namely the deposit guarantee scheme - and it is essential that the council leaves the ambiguous, equivocal position it has held up to now and moves forward, knowing that we will now move forward with a single resolution mechanism from january 2016 which will be able, in the first half of 2016, to set up the third pillar of the banking union, the deposit guarantee scheme. without this the euro is not a real currency, it needs this complete and closed banking union system. that is what we expect from the council in december 2015.
the european union (eu) is making plans for new border and coastal security forces that can intervene even without the consent of their european countries. the proposal is justified by the need to restore european security, which is threatened by the migration crisis. the european commission has proposed to transform the frontex border agency into the european border and coast guard agency, doubling its budget and staff and giving it more powers. the agency is estimated to have a fund of eur 322 million in 2020. this idea of deploying border and coast guard teams 'when a member state cannot or will not take the necessary measures' and therefore putting the schengen area at risk with a rapid reaction force of 1 500 guards is totally unacceptable. it shows that the commission remains blind and unwilling to understand the nature of the situation and to take the necessary measures. insisting on repressive measures reveals a complete lack of humanity and at the same time a complete lack of strategic vision. but it also reveals the true nature of this process of european integration, which we must break with the struggle of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ on 30 september 2015, the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) submitted a proposal to extend the mandate of the chairperson of eiopa for a further five years. the european parliament voted in favour of the proposal and i followed the vote in favour of the proposal for an extension of the mandate.
‒ in 2011, the first chairman of the european banking authority (eba) was appointed by the board of supervisors for a five-year term of office in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, with the possibility of a further five-year extension of his term of office, subject to confirmation by the european parliament in accordance with article 48 (4) of that regulation. in this respect, it was proposed to extend the mandate of the current eba president, andrea enria. consequently, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a successful hearing, in which chairman andrea enria made an opening statement, followed by questions from the members of the committee. i am voting in favour of this report, since it meets the legally required criteria for the extension of the mandate of the president of this institution.
in writing. ‒ this decision of the european parliament extends the mandate of the current president of the european banking authority, andrea enria, for a further five years. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the provisions of article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 to the new rules on the application of articles 48 and 49 of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010. since the european parliament's decision is required and there are no constraints on the renewal of your mandate, i shall vote in favour.
‒ this is an extension of the mandate of the president of an institution which was created in the context of an economic integration process with which we do not agree. we have nothing against the person himself, nor is it relevant to us to have an opinion on his personal and professional qualities. we are confident that it will faithfully carry out the functions for which it is mandated, namely to help consolidate the class dominance of the financial sector and the large economic groups that effectively rule in this eu.
‒ the first eba chair was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term. the eba is part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the eba has the express objective of ensuring consistent and effective prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the banking sector, but also to the capital needs of the banking sector. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2015, the board of supervisors of the european securities and markets authority (esma) submitted a proposal to extend the mandate of the chair of esma for a further five years. the european parliament voted in favour of the proposal and i followed the vote in favour of the proposal for an extension of the mandate.
‒ in 2011, the first chairman of eiopa was appointed by the board of supervisors for a five-year term of office in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010, with the possibility of a further five-year extension of his term of office, subject to confirmation by the european parliament in accordance with article 48 (4) of that regulation. in this respect, it was proposed to extend the mandate of the current president of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardino. consequently, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a successful hearing, in which president gabriel bernardino made an opening statement, followed by questions from the members of the committee. i am voting in favour of this report, since it meets the legally required criteria for the extension of the mandate of the president of this institution.
‒ like the proposal on andrea enria from the european banking authority, i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) - gabriel bernardino, for another five years, not only because i consider that his appointment followed a rigorous and transparent selection process, but also because article 48 (4) itself provides for the legal possibility of a one-off extension of the mandate. in view of the hearing conducted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and ascertaining that the legal and competence conditions for continuing to exercise these functions are met, there are no grounds for not approving the extension of this mandate by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this is an extension of the mandate of the president of an institution which was created in the context of an economic integration process with which we do not agree. we have nothing against the person himself nor is it relevant to us to have an opinion on his personal and professional qualities. we are confident that it will faithfully carry out the functions for which it is mandated, namely to help consolidate the class dominance of the financial sector and the large economic groups that effectively rule in this eu.
‒ the first chairman of eiopa was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term. eiopa is one of the three authorities that form part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). eiopa's express objective is to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2015, the board of supervisors of the european securities and markets authority (esma) submitted a proposal to extend the mandate of the chair of esma for a further five years. the european parliament voted in favour of the proposal and i followed the vote in favour of the proposal for an extension of the mandate.
‒ in 2011, the first chairperson of esma was appointed by the board of supervisors for a term of five years in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010, with the possibility of a further five-year extension of his term of office, subject to confirmation by the european parliament in accordance with article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. in this respect, it was proposed to extend the term of office of the current chairman of esma, mr steven maijoor. consequently, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a successful hearing, in which chairman steven maijoor made an opening statement, followed by questions from members of the committee. i am voting in favour of this report, since it meets the legally required criteria for the extension of the mandate of the president of this institution.
in writing. ‒ we are facing yet another decision by the european parliament on the extension of a mandate - in this case, that of the chairman of the european securities and markets authority (esma), steven maijoor - for a further five years, pursuant to article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. in 2011, the selection process for steven maijoor for this post was carried out in a strict and transparent manner, which is why esma's board of supervisors submitted a proposal to extend his term of office, as provided for in article 48 (4) of the above regulation. after a successful hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and taking into account the positive assessment of his performance in these roles during the first term, there are no grounds for not renewing his mandate and, to that extent, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is an extension of the mandate of the president of an institution which was created in the context of an economic integration process with which we do not agree. we have nothing against the person himself, nor is it relevant to us to have an opinion on his personal and professional qualities. we are confident that it will faithfully carry out the tasks for which it is mandated, namely to help consolidate the class dominance of the financial sector and the large economic groups that effectively rule in this eu.
‒ the first chair of esma was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term. esma is one of the three authorities that form part of the european system of financial supervisors (esfs). esma's express objective is to safeguard the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of securities markets and to enhance investor protection. creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs did not change the underlying issue of financial speculation as it did not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and did not institute the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it.
in writing. ‒ europol, as an information analysis centre which aims to provide support to the member states, has a range of tools at its disposal, including cooperation with third countries through cooperation agreements. parliament is only entitled to give its opinion for the time being. the agreement with bosnia, a neighbouring country located between member states, is therefore of particular importance. the rapporteur rightly suggests that the commission should review it in the light of europol's future legal basis. i therefore support the conclusion of the agreement in the terms proposed.
‒ this report proposes the establishment of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia and herzegovina, which aims at exchanging information, including specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training, advice and support in criminal investigations. like other eu agencies, europol is a structure set up to enforce the implementation of the federalisation path. since its creation, it has been given powers that undermine the sovereignty of states and has been operating without any democratic control. we believe that europol should not override the national police. this proposal for a cooperation agreement is another step in the process of integration of bosnia and herzegovina and could be an act of interference and pressure on that country. the report is of course influenced by our position in principle against the federalisation of home affairs and justice, and in particular by our position on europol. we voted against it.
‒ the operational and strategic cooperation agreement aims to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime affecting two or more member states and which may involve the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. europol shall conclude agreements with third states which have been included in the list established by decision 2009/935/jha. bosnia and herzegovina is included in that list. i support the conclusion of the agreement with the aim of increasing effectiveness in preventing and combating crime and, in particular, given that bosnia-herzegovina is a potential candidate country and a close neighbour of the union.
‒ the eu has established a number of agreements to strengthen and support the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism or other forms of serious crime affecting their member states. bosnia and herzegovina, in its special position as a neighbour of the union and as a potential candidate for membership, was placed on the list of countries with which the eu intended to conclude agreements on the fight against organised crime. i therefore believe that the conclusion of this agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol is beneficial in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention of and the fight against crime, and the 'operational and strategic agreement' is also fundamental, which is why i voted in favour of it.
‒ our position has always been very critical of the establishment of europol since its creation (july 1999). we have always denounced the potential encroachment on individual freedoms through the manipulation of personal data. this organisation, which was formed without any parliamentary or judicial control, reflects in the broadest sense the democratic deficit of this european union. in this sense, this agreement is only intended to strengthen an institution created on the backs of the citizens and to accentuate its profoundly undemocratic character, representing another step in this escalation against the individual rights and freedoms of european citizens.
‒ this report proposes the establishment of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia and herzegovina, which aims at exchanging information, including specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training, advice and support in criminal investigations. like other european union agencies, europol is a structure set up to enforce the implementation of the federalisation process. since its creation, the eu has been entrusted with powers that undermine the sovereignty of states, and has been operating without any democratic control. we believe that europol should not override the police authorities and their activities, and we support cooperation between the internal security structures of the various countries. i therefore vote against.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 442 293 for ireland to support the 108 workers made redundant at pwa international ltd (pwai).
‒ ireland has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following 108 redundancies at pwa international ltd (pwai), established in 1989 in rathcoole, a joint purchase between united technologies corporation and lufthansa technik airmotive, which operated in the machinery equipment repair and installation sector. the recent trend towards the relocation of activities in the maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro) sector, for example to asia, has been a factor which has seriously affected this sector and ireland. this application does not fulfil all the traditional eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation in terms of the number of redundancies, invoking a derogation for exceptional circumstances, as redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local, regional or national economy. ireland has also decided to provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to 108 young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets). almost 80% of the workers made redundant are aged between 30 and 54 years, and all 108 of the workers made redundant are skilled workers in the 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment' sector, more specifically in the aviation engine sector. each new egf mobilisation is a libel against eu policies.
‒ the application concerns the dismissal of 108 workers at pwa international. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the european union's financial assistance to workers made redundant should be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. the irish application qualifies for a financial contribution from the egf and the irish authorities have provided all the necessary guarantees, so i voted in favour of the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which ireland has submitted.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 33 ('repair and installation of machinery and equipment'), and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training (neets). i am voting in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 442 293 from the egf for ireland. the application concerns the dismissal of 108 workers at pwa international.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for ireland, which has applied for this financial instrument, to cope with the 108 redundancies in pwa international ltd (pwai), a company active in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a financial assistance mechanism designed to provide additional support for workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns, by assisting them in their reintegration into the labour market. in view of the exceptional nature of the arguments put forward by ireland in this application for the egf, and in particular the fact that the dismissal of this number of workers would have serious repercussions on the local economy, especially in the southern and eastern regions of the country, i am in favour of this application which grants a financial contribution of €442 293 to ireland under the egf regulation to provide personalised services for the training and reintegration of these workers into the labour market. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ in 1990 ireland was a specialist in the maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro) sector. the recent trend to relocate mro activities close to global aviation expansion hubs, for example to asia, and the ill effects of global trade, and the closure of sr technics in 2009 and the closure of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland in 2014, which resulted in the loss of around 1520 jobs, were factors that seriously affected this sector and ireland. this application does not fulfil all the traditional eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation in terms of number of redundancies and is submitted under the intervention criteria of article 4 (2) of the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (2014-2020), which allows for a derogation in exceptional circumstances, entitling ireland to a financial contribution of eur 442 293 under that regulation.
‒ ireland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following 108 redundancies at pwa international ltd (pwai), established in 1989 in rathcoole, a joint purchase between united technologies corporation and lufthansa technik airmotive ireland, which operated in the repair and installation of machinery equipment in the south and east of ireland. in 1990, ireland was a specialist in the maintenance, repair and overhaul sector. however, the recent trend to relocate these activities close to centres of global aviation expansion, for example to asia, have been factors that have seriously affected this sector and ireland. this application does not fulfil all the traditional eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation in terms of the number of redundancies and is submitted under the intervention criteria of article 4 (2) of the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (2014-2020), which allows for a derogation in exceptional circumstances, thus entitling ireland to a financial contribution of eur 442 293 under that regulation, as redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local, regional or national economy. although these funds are only palliative, not addressing the real causes of redundancies, we voted in favour.
in writing. in accordance with the invasive exotic species regulation on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive species, the commission is to submit a list of such species by january 2016. the detailed criteria for the construction of this list are set out in the regulation. the list presented consists of 36 species. this draft objection considers that the list is incompatible with the provisions of the regulation, since no harmful or rapidly spreading species (animals and plants) have been included. in addition, the procedures for drawing up this list were not respected, in particular the european parliament was not informed about the elements and methodologies of the impact studies. in short, the decision on the species included in the list appears to take into account criteria of a political or economic nature, without a scientific basis, and was weighed in its final configuration by a set of pressures put forward by some member states. some of these pressures are known. as regards portugal, the importance of the inclusion of the water hyacinth in the list is underlined, despite the opposition of member states with a commercial interest in this species. given that the next revision of this list is scheduled for six years from now, the shortcomings of this proposal must be corrected now, which is why we voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern. this is a subject to which i have always devoted much attention. it is of the utmost importance that priority be given to the identification of all invasive alien species causing damage in the eu. by combating invasive species we are simultaneously protecting the native biodiversity of each member state. the commission's initial list ignores species that are among the most harmful invasive alien species in europe.
in writing. ‒ the commission shall adopt a list of invasive alien species of union concern, under the criteria of article 4 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council. whereas the commission has not specified the type of evidence that is acceptable and has not provided a detailed description of the application of article 5 (1) (a) to (h) of the regulation, including the methodology to be applied in risk assessments, nor has it ensured that the methodology and application of risk assessments are the same for all member states when proposing to include a species in the union list. i think it is important that the inclusion of species in the list is based on a risk assessment and a standardised methodology and not based on the political will of the member states. it should be noted that the commission's initial list has been criticised by several national authorities and stakeholders, raising serious doubts as to the effectiveness of the ias regulation, mainly because many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species that are not likely to cause significant adverse impacts on biodiversity, human health or the economy are included.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the objection to the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern, as i consider that this regulation exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1143/2014, as stated in paragraph 1 of the report. the commission is therefore asked to submit a new draft, which is in line with the regulatory provisions and which brings together in a single document the identification of the group of invasive alien species which are of legitimate concern in a number of member states of the european union. in this way, we will be able to adopt specific uniform measures to minimise the adverse effects that these species may have on the preservation of european biodiversity and related ecosystem systems, as well as on the economy and human health.
‒ in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive species, the european commission has until january 2016 to present a list of these species based on criteria defined in the regulation. although it is a fairly comprehensive legislative document, one important element is missing, namely which species should be targeted and controlled, which is why articles 3 and 4 set out detailed criteria for the construction of the list. the list presented by the commission consists of 36 species, which, according to the rapporteur of the objection, is incompatible with the provisions of the regulation, since the most harmful or the most rapidly spreading species of plants and animals have not been included. in addition, the procedures for drawing up this list were not respected, in particular the european parliament was not informed about the elements and methodologies of the impact studies, and the decision on the species included in the list appears to be political or economic and not based on scientific grounds.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (d041932/01 2015/3010 ((rsp)) mainly because i agree that the draft list proposed by the ec does not address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive way, does not take care to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services, and does not minimise and mitigate the impacts that these species may have on human health or the economy. it also weighed in my vote the fact that the text calls for the withdrawal of this draft implementing regulation and the submission of a new one. the new commission proposal should include the water hyacinth, an invasive species which is posing a serious threat to the alqueva river basin.
‒ in accordance with the invasive exotic species regulation, on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive species, the european commission is to present a list of these species by january 2016. the detailed criteria for the construction of this list are set out in the regulation. the decision on the species included in the list appears to take account of political or economic criteria, without any scientific basis, and was shaped by a set of pressures from some member states. some of these pressures are known. as regards portugal, the importance of the inclusion of the water hyacinth in the list is underlined, despite the opposition of member states with a commercial interest in this species. given that the next revision of this list is scheduled for six years from now, the shortcomings of this proposal must be corrected now, which is why we voted in favour of the objection.
‒ this objection aims to reject any authorisation for the placing on the market, either for trade or for animal feed, of genetically modified organisms (gmos), as the procedures are being reviewed and there is a clear inadequacy and inadequacy of the current eu legislation. in the present case, the authorisation of the use of the genetically modified maize nk603xt25, which is resistant to glyphosate, requested by the multinational monsanto, is rejected. this herbicide (along with another, ammonium gluosine-to), has been classified as probably carcinogenic to humans by the world health organization's cancer agency. nevertheless, the european food safety authority declared that the herbicide was unlikely to pose a danger. symptomatic of the lack of credibility of this entity, whose promiscuous links to industry have been pointed out several times. since the current gmo authorisation process came into force, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the european commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states. the european commission is asked to present, as promised by its president but not yet implemented, a new legislative proposal to amend the current legislative framework on gmos, which is considered to be insufficient to address concerns associated with food safety, public health and the environment. we voted in favour.
‒ i have some reservations about the text of this resolution, particularly as regards the scientific assessment of the risks and possible impacts on humans. i believe that there should be a more thorough debate on this matter, which merits some caution, and that is why i have decided to vote against the motion for a resolution authorizing the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 x t25.
‒ i am in favour of reducing the differences in the trade mark system in europe and of the eu trade mark system and national trade mark systems coexisting in a complementary relationship. i think it is essential to ensure that registered trade marks enjoy the same protection under the legal systems of all the member states. in line with the broad protection afforded to eu trade marks which enjoy a reputation in the union, broad protection should also be granted at national level to all trade marks which enjoy a reputation in the member state concerned. i stress that it will be necessary to modernise trade mark systems in the union in order to meet the increased demands of those concerned for faster, better and more rational trade mark registration systems. by making the trademark systems more efficient, we will be reducing costs, red tape and complexity for businesses, which could mean increased innovation and economic growth.
‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the objection to the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 x t25, on the grounds that the commission's implementing decision on this matter exceeds its implementing powers under regulation (ec) no 1829/2005, and is not in accordance with union law. i therefore believe that there should be a re-examination of the situation to see whether the commission's implementing decision should be suspended or not until a new regulation is adopted, so that it complies with the provisions of the acquis communautaire. because it is a question of the need to provide a high level of protection for human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental protection itself and the need for consumers to be properly informed, and because there are still doubts about the safeguarding of these rights, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ a few days after the european parliament's environment committee raised an objection to the authorisation of monsanto's genetically modified maize nk603xt25, the european commission, in the absence of consensus among member states, decides to authorise the placing on the market of this same gm maize. this is an undemocratic decision. moreover, its concrete content takes on the greatest gravity. this is a genetically modified corn to tolerate two herbicides glyphosate and glyphosate. the first is classified by the european union itself as toxic to reproduction. the second is classified by the world health organization as potentially carcinogenic. the total discredit of the current gmo authorization mechanism requires the immediate suspension of the issuing of authorizations until the president of the european commission fulfils his promise and proposes a new mechanism.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 106 on commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize, as i consider that any implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified organisms (gmos) in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted. the current version of the regulation lacks functionality and an effective system for the approval of genetically modified food and feed. moreover, the commission's final decision on such authorisations, which has become the norm, should be only an exception in the whole procedure. i therefore consider that the commission implementing decision is not compatible with the purpose of the regulation to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
‒ this objection aims to reject any authorisation for the placing on the market, either for trade or for animal feed, of genetically modified organisms (gmos), as the procedures are being reviewed and there is a clear inadequacy and inadequacy of the current eu legislation. in the present case, the authorisation of the use of the genetically modified maize nk603xt25, which is resistant to glyphosate, requested by the multinational monsanto, is rejected. this herbicide (along with another, glufosinate ammonium) has been classified as a probable human carcinogen by the world health organization's cancer agency. nevertheless, the european food safety authority declared that the herbicide was unlikely to pose a danger. this is symptomatic of the lack of credibility of this body, whose promiscuous links with industry have been pointed out on several occasions. the european commission is asked to present, as promised by its president but not yet implemented, a new legislative proposal to amend the current legislative framework on gmos, which is considered to be insufficient to address concerns associated with food safety, public health and the environment. we voted in favour.
‒ the luxleaks scandal and subsequent investigations have shown that tax fraud and evasion are widespread in most member states, with the knowledge of their governments. this report proposes to address ways of 'ensuring transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation policies in the eu'. the report contains positive recommendations, such as, among others:- mandatory and public country-by-country reporting by multinational companies for all sectors;- countermeasures against companies using tax havens;- - adaptation of the definition of permanent establishment so that companies cannot artificially avoid having a taxable presence in the member states where they carry out an economic activity; - improvement of the transfer pricing framework in the eu. the proposal to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base can help to combat profit shifting. but the application of this measure will not solve the problem by itself. the report leaves the door open to tax harmonization with proposals which, in the name of combating tax evasion and profit shifting, are intended to give the impetus to the loss of yet another economic policy mechanism, this time fiscal policy. we abstained.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on ensuring transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation policies in the union. in the debates held by the european parliament's taxe committee, it became clear that aggressive tax planning practices are not limited to luxembourg but are quite widespread throughout the eu. according to a study commissioned by the european parliament, the eu loses around €50-70 million a year through corporate tax avoidance and profit shifting. it is of the utmost importance that legislative measures are adopted at eu level in order to improve the transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation policies in the union.
‒ 'aggressive tax planning' practices are quite widespread throughout the eu. this phenomenon consists of taking advantage of the technical aspects of a tax system in order to reduce tax liabilities. while not the same as tax fraud and tax evasion, which are illegal activities, in essence, all three practices reduce the collectible, undermining trust in governments and businesses. the eu loses around €70 billion a year due to corporate tax avoidance, simply through profit shifting. these practices are never acceptable, especially in difficult economic circumstances such as those facing europe today. if some multinational companies do not contribute, then there is no longer a level playing field and smaller national companies have difficulty in competing, which is completely contrary to the principle of the single market. recent experience shows that member states cannot act individually in the fight against aggressive tax planning. respecting the sovereignty of the member states in matters of tax policy, it is necessary to adopt legislative measures at eu level in order to improve the transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation policies in the union.
‒ aggressive tax practices in some eu member states have caused a lot of controversy and controversy, and even more so since the widely publicized lux leaks case (11/2014). in february this year, the european parliament set up a special committee on aggressive tax practices to 'find out about practices in relation to the application of eu tax and state aid law to decisions of the tax court and other measures of the same nature or effect taken by member states, where such practices constitute an act of a member state or the commission', as the text of the decision establishing it said. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has also decided to draw up its own own initiative report proposing legislative action on this subject, which i voted in favour of. among the proposals in this report, which are divided into four areas, namely transparency, coordination, convergence and other measures, i would only highlight the preparation of public reports describing the situation in each of the member states, the creation of a common and convincing definition of 'tax havens' and the improvement of the exchange of information between tax administrations.
‒ this issue has been heightened following the luxleaks revelations by a consortium of journalists in november 2014, which revealed that many multinational companies had entered into secret agreements with the luxembourg authorities, allowing them to reduce their tax obligations, in some cases to almost 1%, creating very little or no economic activity in the country. these 'aggressive tax planning' practices are by no means limited to luxembourg, but are in fact quite widespread throughout the eu. according to available studies, the eu loses around €50-70 billion a year due to corporate tax avoidance, simply through profit shifting. this amounts to around eur 160-190 billion if account is taken of special tax arrangements, inefficiencies in collection and other similar elements. these practices are never acceptable, especially in difficult economic circumstances such as those facing europe today. this scandal deeply affects the credibility of the european institutions, as it directly implicates the presidents of the european commission and the eurogroup. it shows who this eu serves with its model of neoliberal integration based on the free movement of capital and the sacralization of financial markets.
‒ the luxleaks scandal and other investigations that followed showed that tax fraud and evasion is a widespread practice in most member states with the knowledge of their governments for decades. in the light of the findings, the ep authorised in december 2014 the drafting of a legislative own-initiative report on ways to 'ensure transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation policies in the european union'. the report makes some recommendations which we consider to be quite positive, such as the submission of mandatory and public country reports by multinational companies for all sectors, the creation of a common and strict definition of tax havens or of countermeasures against companies using tax havens. the report leaves the door wide open to tax harmonization through proposals which, in the name of combating tax evasion and profit shifting, seek to give the impetus to the loss of sovereignty in tax policy. we abstained.
‒ this report is marked, on the one hand, by the eu's manifest interest in investment and trade issues with china and its determination to gain access to larger slices of the chinese internal market and, on the other hand, by its insistence on interference in china's internal affairs at every level, arrogating to itself the right to set parameters for a wide range of chinese policies (from the economy to religious policy, from diplomacy to defence, to human rights and civil society). the report never affirms the principles of respect for sovereignty and non-interference, mutual interest, equality of conditions, progress and social welfare. the issue of human rights is omnipresent throughout the document, although it also deserves a specific chapter, always from an inquiry and superiority perspective on the part of the eu. whether it is on security, terrorism, the rights of national minorities, etc., the text is full of hypocrisy, which could be summed up in one sentence: "don't look at what i do, do what i nail". full of pressure, prescriptions and remarks which amount to a flagrant and gross crime of meddling and interference expressing the view and interests of the eu - this report can only be rejected.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on eu-china relations. the eu and china are engaged in a number of ongoing sectoral dialogues, including on environment, regional policy, employment and social affairs and civil society. the identification of common interests such as global and regional security, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development, adds enormous value to this strategic partnership.
‒ the union has a clear foreign policy towards the brics and other emerging powers. this report comes as the strategic partnership is developing and the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between china and the union is being commemorated. the meetings between the two sides at various levels - commercial, scientific and cultural - are an example of the commitment to move towards a strategic relationship. however, i would like to stress that there are still issues of concern, in particular the issue of human rights, in particular the demonstrations in hong kong calling for changes in the political system and the attitude towards tibet. in parallel, the growing escalation of tension with neighbouring countries in the south china sea region is also of concern. i would also like to congratulate the progress made in the dialogue between china and taiwan. i believe in the importance of dialogue in external relations and in the importance of this closer relationship, and i therefore support this report.
‒ this report on eu-china relations, which i voted in favour of, comes on the heels of the celebration of the 40th anniversary of our diplomatic relations, stating that this event should serve as a 'source of inspiration' to strengthen the strategic partnership so necessary in a multipolar and globalised world and to accelerate the ongoing negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. the high-level strategic dialogue and, in particular, its practical implementation in bringing the two economies closer together, has contributed to china's vigorous growth over the past 20 years and to its increasing strategic importance as a european partner in asia. the strengthening of the joint dialogue should also give priority to the protection of human rights, in particular in tibet, and to the situation of (almost) permanent tension in the south china sea. the opportunities offered by this enhanced cooperation and dialogue - for example in the field of sustainable development and the circular economy - now offer new opportunities for european and chinese citizens and businesses to come closer together, and should not be missed.
‒ 2015 marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the eu and china. the eu-china strategic partnership is of great importance both for the eu-people's republic of china (prc) relations and for the development of common solutions to various global concerns, the identification of common interests. in 2013, china and the eu entered into negotiations for a bilateral investment treaty. in other words, we welcome the deepening of relations between the eu and the people's republic of china, provided that this deepening is based on respect for the sovereignty and independence of the parties and in particular on the right to choose their strategy of economic and social development. what we do not recognise is the legitimacy, much less the moral authority, of the eu to give lessons in democracy when we know that we live, as is easy to see, in a real financial dictatorship of big capital.
‒ this report is riddled with hypocritical contradictions, for while it is marked by the eu's strong interest in investment and trade with china and its determination to gain access to larger shares of the chinese internal market, it is also unacceptably insistent on interfering in china's internal affairs at every level and claiming the right to set the parameters for a wide range of chinese policies (from economics to religious policy, from diplomacy to defence, human rights and civil society). whether it is the human rights part, the security and terrorism part or the rights of national minorities, the text is full of hypocrisy, which could be summed up in the phrase: 'don't look at what i do, do what i preach'. it is a road map for the imposition of the eu's vision and interests, which we voted against.
‒ the last global discussions on the humanitarian action framework took place almost 25 years ago. since then, the conditions for humanitarian assistance have changed significantly, notably with a steady increase in the number, scale and persistence of humanitarian emergencies resulting from both man-made conflicts and natural disasters, and exacerbated by global issues such as climate change. i support the salom report because i believe it is important that global actors, and in particular the eu as the main donor, should play a leading role in reshaping the humanitarian architecture to make it more inclusive, effective, transparent and responsive to the increased humanitarian needs related to the current challenges such as the wave of displacement of people. i believe that in the context of the summit, the eu should build on the european consensus on humanitarian aid to guide its contribution to the process and use it as a regional model to promote. finally, given the nature of the current emergency situations, new financing is urgently needed, and parliament has already stressed the importance of maintaining the same payment and commitment appropriations in the humanitarian aid chapter and in the reserve for emergency aid.
‒ this report is about the world humanitarian summit (whs) and aims to contribute to a common eu position at this summit. it is noted that the objectives of the chm will shift from reshaping the humanitarian system to adapting it to a rapidly changing emergency scenario, in order to make humanitarian action more efficient and prepared. it calls for closer cooperation between humanitarian aid communities and for the focus of action to shift from response to prevention and anticipation. the world is facing humanitarian crises unprecedented in both their number, scale and persistence. the year 2014 saw a dramatic increase in forced displacement caused by war and conflict, reaching the highest level in recent history. many of these situations are a painful demonstration of the inhuman, exploitative and aggressive character of the capitalist system and have their causes and culprits: the processes of destabilization in various parts of the globe and the imperialist wars of aggression, the policy of economic domination and the plundering of natural resources. the report calls on member states to integrate business into their national emergency plans and advocates enhanced cooperation with the private sector in humanitarian action. a view which we do not share, which is why we did not vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid. the world is currently facing humanitarian crises unprecedented in both their number, scale and persistence. the recurring natural disasters, the level 3 emergencies in syria, iraq, yemen, south sudan and the central african republic and the ebola outbreak in west africa have exponentially increased the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance. the world humanitarian summit, to be held in istanbul in may 2016, should seek to reshape the humanitarian system and adapt it to new scenarios, such as the current refugee crisis. only in this way can we hope to make humanitarian action more efficient and future-proof. the eu has the responsibility and the capacity to take a leading role in finding more efficient and effective ways of meeting the needs of victims of conflict and disasters.
‒ humanitarian crises have grown in recent years in terms of scale and frequency. the number of people forced to move has reached its highest level since world war ii. we're talking about over 60 million people, 40 million of whom are internally displaced, and over half of the world's refugees are children. this document is intended to be a contribution to the first world humanitarian summit to be held in may next year in istanbul. i agree with the inclusion of a five-year action plan to make operational the political actions and commitments undertaken, and with the necessary complementarity between humanitarian aid and development aid to deal with the numerous obstacles and the lack of coordination between these two policies. i am also in favour of the need to review the geneva convention on refugees and the kampala convention in order to adapt them to the problems of our world today. i also agree with the need to look at the issue of climate refugees, which is now the reason for the internal displacement of thousands of people. i believe that we can and must do more for the most vulnerable groups, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ this is a real call for member states to support the world humanitarian summit and adopt sound conclusions at council level with specific commitments and priority areas of intervention, ensuring operational efficiency, common quality standards, better coordination and partnerships with emerging donors, based on politically non-biased aid, as well as a common understanding and application of the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence and in compliance with their obligations under international humanitarian law.
‒ the eu has been proactively involved in resolving/minimizing the effects of a growing number of humanitarian crises that have been increasing in scale, severity and persistence and that require a coordinated, firm and adequate response at the global level. the first world humanitarian summit will take place in may 2016, and as such the eu will need to draw up a concrete development and operationalization plan in the face of the political commitments it will make and the humanitarian catastrophes that have arisen. i also believe that it is essential to increase the financial resources for humanitarian aid through global solutions adopted multilaterally and on a world scale. the key challenges we face today require innovative solutions, linking thematic areas such as humanitarian effectiveness, vulnerability reduction, or risk management. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which suggests a set of preparatory measures for this summit, where it is urgent to adopt effective and efficient measures to minimise or eliminate the humanitarian disasters which have occurred in recent years and which require an immediate and definitive response.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the framework of the common fisheries policy. the report recommends a global partnership for principled humanitarian action, a leading role for the eu as the world's leading humanitarian donor, and greater complementarity between humanitarian and development aid. the report also advocates three other important ideas: a five-year roadmap for the operationalization of the political commitments made at the summit; the creation of a global fund for humanitarian assistance, promoting the effectiveness of humanitarian funding; and the increase of funding for the education of children in humanitarian emergencies, with 4% of the eu humanitarian aid budget allocated to this objective. i therefore supported this report because it contains concrete suggestions for making the humanitarian system more inclusive, effective, transparent and truly global.
‒ the world is currently facing unprecedented humanitarian crises. the continuing and protracted conflicts caused by imperial strategies of interference in the internal affairs of various countries and continents are accompanied by recurring natural disasters and epidemics, such as the recent ebola case. there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there were after world war ii. one consequence of this has been the disproportionate increase in people attempting to seek refuge by undertaking life-threatening sea journeys. the chronic needs arising from these conflicts and disasters, the fruit of selfishness in western nations and in particular in the eu, are pushing the humanitarian response system to its limits. in this context, the un secretary-general, ban ki-moon, has called for the first-ever world humanitarian summit (whs) to be held in istanbul in may 2016. we do not deny the urgent need to respond to situations requiring immediate humanitarian aid. what is also needed, but unfortunately absent from the debate, is a diagnosis of the root causes of this phenomenon, as well as policy changes that can address this problem at the root.
‒ this report is about the world humanitarian summit (whs) and aims to contribute to a common eu position at this summit. it is noted that the objectives of the chm will shift from reshaping the humanitarian system to adapting it to a rapidly changing emergency scenario, in order to make humanitarian action more efficient and prepared. it calls for closer cooperation between humanitarian aid communities and for the focus of action to shift from response to prevention and anticipation. the world is facing humanitarian crises unprecedented in both their number, scale and persistence. the year 2014 saw a dramatic increase in forced displacement caused by war and conflict, reaching the highest level in recent history. many of these situations are a painful demonstration of the inhuman, exploitative and aggressive character of the capitalist system and have their causes and culprits: the processes of destabilization in various parts of the globe and the imperialist wars of aggression, the policy of economic domination and the plundering of natural resources. unfortunately, none of this is mentioned in the report.
in writing. the decrease in capacity and employment in the european steel industry is partly due to the drop in demand. in 2014, it decreased by 40 million tonnes compared to 2007. but this decline is mainly the result of decades of divestment and dismantling of this sector, as exemplified by the case of portugal, which has involved dependence and the loss of specialised industrial know-how, which is reflected in downstream sectors. the report states the urgency of increasing the development of the base metals industry - iron, aluminium, copper, etc. - and the need to adapt it to new technological/environmental paradigms, with a view to its international reassertment. some of the recommendations in this report are positive. but the approach taken is incomplete and inconsistent. we also do not follow up on the considerations of exploitation and ownership, i.e. the accumulation of capital by large multinationals which will ultimately continue to appropriate the resources and wealth creation of this sector. a new impetus for industrial policy must continue the process of technological, energy and environmental modernisation, and to this end it must create more jobs and have the necessary instruments and means, which will not be possible without strategic public control of the base metal industries.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to propose to the council that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. the eu cannot and must not lose the industrial know-how it has acquired over many decades. the idea that the eu could become dependent on a sector which has made numerous technological achievements is very worrying. investment in this sector should be promoted and the eu should launch a european industrial policy in the raw materials and base metals sector.
‒ the base metals sector is of strategic importance for the union, but in particular for some regions. this report is in line with the union's objective of reindustrialising the european continent by promoting investment and creating a favourable and fair international environment. this industry has to adapt to the union's climate and energy policies, but the union must also protect this market against dumping. the price of energy, the relocation of industry, dumping and export subsidies by third countries are some of the threats to this sector. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the approach adopted will have positive consequences for the restoration of the economic potential of this industry.
‒ the metal industry is extremely important for the eu, as it is the basis for many other industries that have a strong impact on the european economy, such as automotive, aerospace, energy production and civil construction. to ensure the competitiveness of the base metals industry, the report suggests that the eu should build on the redefinition of its current emissions trading system. energy-intensive industry should reduce co2 emissions, allowing the eu to ensure industrial competitiveness while meeting its objectives. supporting the base metal industry - which is so special and vulnerable to external competitiveness and to eu energy and environment policy - should have as its ultimate aim the fight against the increasing loss of competitiveness of various base material industries such as steel or aluminium. the eu needs to help (re) build an efficient framework for these sectors in order to strengthen economic potential and, above all, to re-industrialize europe through innovation and promoting a level playing field in the sector at international level. for these reasons, and because i consider it essential to support the european base metal industry, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the financialisation of the economy and the long process of deindustrialisation associated with it are eloquently illustrated in this report. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force. this capacity adjustment has been so significant that any recovery in european demand will result in the creation of a historic trade deficit in europe, which in turn will lead to dependence and losses of industrial know-how that will not fail to have an impact on the downstream sectors of the automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies sectors. any industrial policy that is implemented and that seeks to break with this situation of impoverishment and dependence will not be possible without a strategic public control of its base metal industries by creating all the necessary instruments and means to cope with an increase in the price of carbon and to draw up a strategy compatible with the environmental objectives that we have set ourselves to respect.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'developing a sustainable european base metals industry' because i believe that europe, already dependent on raw materials, cannot allow a new dependence on base metals to develop, an industry which is currently facing a significant drop in demand and investment, driven mainly by energy prices and comparatively high carbon costs compared to third countries. despite the difficult situation in which it finds itself, the base metals industry must at the same time pursue a policy of energy and environmental modernisation in accordance with existing european rules and equip itself with the necessary instruments to make this transition a success. as such, to ensure the competitiveness of this industry, a reformulation of the current eu emissions trading system is urgently needed, complementing it with other energy and environmental innovative instruments and strategies for effective emission reduction, as well as a focus on the reuse of base metals and the development of a circular economy. investment in research and development is also needed if europe is to remain a centre of excellence for the production of base metals.
in writing. the decrease in capacity and employment in the european steel industry is partly due to the drop in demand. in 2014, it decreased by 40 million tonnes compared to 2007. but this decline is mainly the result of decades of divestment and dismantling of this sector, as exemplified by the case of portugal, which has involved dependence and the loss of specialised industrial know-how, which is reflected in downstream sectors. the report states the urgency of increasing the development of the base metals industry - iron, aluminium, copper, etc. - and the need to adapt it to new technological/environmental paradigms, with a view to its international reassertment. we do not follow considerations regarding exploitation and ownership, i.e. the accumulation of capital by large multinationals which will ultimately continue to appropriate the resources and wealth creation of this sector. a new impetus for industrial policy must continue the process of technological, energy and environmental modernisation, and to do so it must create more jobs and have the necessary instruments and means, which will not be possible without strategic public control of the base metal industries.
‒ for a candidate country to be able to join the european union, it needs to meet the so-called 'copenhagen criteria', which determine, among other things, the integration of the community acquis and respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. i have long argued that once a member state has joined, the criteria used for membership should not be relaxed. we have a set of mechanisms for this, such as the infringement procedure or, in systemic and serious cases of breaches of the rule of law and fundamental rights, the so-called article 7 procedure. the commission has therefore opened, among other things, infringement proceedings against hungary in respect of its asylum rules. the commission also noted that the council had not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. i am aware that there are still problems in hungary. we must therefore work to find solutions to the problems of the hungarian citizens as well as those of all other member states where similar problems may occur. this resolution has some positive points but ignores the work that has been done so far by both parliament and the european commission.
‒ this resolution follows up previous initiatives on hungary. the forces in power in this country have a markedly reactionary, proto-fascist character and have implemented a series of measures restricting democratic, individual and collective freedoms, which are a cause for deep concern. it is forces like those in power in hungary that the eu's policies of civilizational regression and of affront to the sovereignty of the peoples have been opening the way. the attitude and character of the hungarian government is clear in the vile attitude it has taken towards the thousands of migrants who have passed through the country, in the mass exodus that has brought them to europe, with reports of ill-treatment, assault, neglect, extortion and arbitrary and illegal detentions. that's in addition to the wall they've built along their border. all this is very clear. all of this deserves to be condemned. but we cannot accept that the european parliament, in the wake of this situation, should present itself and the eu as the champion and reference point of democracy. even because the facts and history, especially the most recent, deny it readily and irrevocably. nor can we accept the hypocrisy of those who base their immigration policy on the expulsion of those fleeing war, poverty and hunger.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in hungary. the policy pursued by prime minister orbán raises a number of questions in terms of fundamental rights in hungary. the eventual reintroduction of the death penalty in the country, and a controversial public consultation on immigration, has triggered an eu reaction. the european commission has stated that the reintroduction of the death penalty would be contrary to the values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union and would lead to the application of article 7, which allows, in the event of a serious and persistent breach of eu values, the suspension of certain rights of the member state concerned, including the right to vote of the representative of the government of that member state in the council. it is extremely important that the commission continue to monitor the situation in hungary closely.
‒ in june this year, a motion for a resolution was adopted on the need for all member states to fully respect eu law, its common basic values, including democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights themselves. in this respect, this proposal adds nothing substantive or new to the proposal previously submitted on measures to protect the rule of law and european values. hungary has made an effort to fulfil and respect fundamental rights and other obligations under eu law. i think it is important that the commission continues to monitor all the member states on an equal footing and without any duality of criteria as regards migration, democratic principles and fundamental rights, and the need to promote greater cooperation and unity between member states at this time of crisis and the need to strengthen the rule of law. however, i do not share the restrictive view of this joint motion for a resolution by the political groups: alde, gue/ngl and greens/efa (which is not part of the epp motion for a resolution, which was rejected earlier during this voting period - before the vote on this joint motion), which is why i voted against it.
‒ the actions of the hungarian government have over the years led to a serious deterioration in the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. as regards the treatment of asylum seekers, refugees and hostile actions and hate speech directed at groups such as roma, jews, the lgbti community, migrants, the homeless and other poor people, the need for a position to condemn these practices that undermine the values of human dignity is emerging. the hasty measures adopted in recent months, which have made access to international protection extremely difficult, have unjustifiably criminalised migrants and asylum seekers, as well as the increasing use of detention of asylum seekers and xenophobic rhetoric linking migrants to social problems or security risks, reach the limits of the tolerable and cannot be tolerated. however, it is also important to denounce the hypocrisy of the eu in this matter, which has been building a policy for migration that, in practice, is based on repressive measures that end up being at the root of all this humanitarian drama that the world is witnessing and that require measures that the eu clearly does not have the political will to take.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary, as i consider that member states must fully respect eu law. it is based on respect for human dignity, human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, values which are universal and common to all full eu member states. in the light of recent developments and measures taken over the past few years in hungary, especially with regard to restrictions on freedom of expression, the human rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, freedom of assembly and association, restrictions on the activities of civil society organisations, the right to equal treatment and minority rights, i see hungary as a test for the eu to demonstrate its capacity and political commitment to respond to threats and cases of violation of its own fundamental values by a member state, and as such i consider the commission's infringement procedure against hungary of 10 december to be important in order to ensure that hungary or any other member state complies with its obligations under eu law and respects its underlying values by using the procedures of the regulation to revoke the emergency measures adopted.
‒ this resolution follows up on the previous initiatives on hungary which have been taken in the european parliament. the country has a reactionary, proto-fascist government which has implemented a series of measures restricting democratic, individual and collective freedoms, imposing an authoritarian regime on its own people. this attitude is even more vile for those who arrive in that country, as a result of the mass exodus of thousands of migrants, with reports of ill-treatment, aggression and neglect, and this is added to the wall that is a disgrace to all but is no longer the only reference point between member states. in this context, the european parliament voted this resolution, which is a treaty of interference on the one hand, with an unacceptable call for the activation of article 7 of the treaty on european union, and of hypocrisy on the other, when it strongly criticises hungary's position on the migration crisis, at a time when the entire european union's migration policy is based on the return of the vast majority of migrants it receives, without being able to respond in a dignified way, immediately, to their most basic needs.
mr. president, in 2014, deaths from terrorism increased by 80 percent: raif badawi's sentence was aggravated in the worst possible way; female recruits of the indonesian police were subjected to virginity tests; in india, 10 women died after mass sterilization; saudi arabia executed 37 people in the first half of 2014; isis executed 700 syrians in two weeks; the un commissioner condemned israel and hamas for possible war crimes; in são paulo, brazil, 66 public officials were charged with 26 cases of torture; in the space of a year, 41,000 people were arrested, charged and sentenced in egypt, among them ibrahim halawa; equatorial guinea, mozambique and angola have been accused of human rights violations. hundreds of cases could be listed, but my question is: what is the european union doing with regard to human rights in its trade policy?
mr president, the working conditions of human rights activists accused and persecuted for terrorism or restricted by legislation on the registration and funding of ngos are worsening all over the world. the european union and its member states continue to pursue contradictory, inconsistent, counterproductive policies and fail to speak with one voice. the special representative for human rights must be able to speak publicly on behalf of the union. european union delegations and embassies must resist political interference and intimidation by local authorities in human rights programmes. this was not the case with mrs concetta tirzi, who was expelled by the angolan authorities with the inadmissible complicity of the european union for having arranged meetings with activists such as luati beirão and other prisoners who were subjected to sham trials. the european union delegations shamefully censor themselves, as in ethiopia, where the regime is repressing and killing oromo students and the delegation remains mute and buries its head in the sand.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, despite all its limitations, which have been widely acknowledged here, continues to play an irreplaceable and leading role in monitoring, reporting and intervening in the field of human rights. i would therefore like to stress the importance of the annual discussion of this report and, in the specific case of the one now under discussion, the comprehensive and constructive way in which it has been drawn up, covering all areas of human rights. as we know, these have suffered very worrying setbacks in recent years in various parts of the world, as a result of wars, terrorism and the persecution of minorities, which are directly linked to the current exodus of migrants, with tragic consequences on european soil. there is, however, one question i would like to raise which i think should be dealt with in greater depth in this report and which has to do with the link between our trade policy and our policy of promoting human rights. as we know today, the trade agreements we have with other regions of the world are absolutely essential for the integration of human rights clauses for the promotion of human rights worldwide.
in writing. the same european union which, internally and externally, tramples on democracy and human rights, claims the right to give lessons in democracy and human rights to the rest of the world, as this debate once again attests. the universal declaration of human rights lists rights and principles aimed at ensuring respect for life and human dignity, including, inter alia, freedom, the rights of expression, opinion, religion and participation in the life of communities, equality at birth regardless of social class and race, equality before the law and justice, the right of everyone to access to health, education, social security, work and a reasonable wage to ensure that all families have a decent life, clothing, decent housing and food, equal pay for equivalent work, including equality between the sexes, the right to privacy, advocating the elimination of all forms of discrimination. the impoverishment of democracy is always linked to the non-fulfilment of some fundamental human rights. we feel it today as never before in the eu. it is the defence of these rights - won and now threatened - that is the pulse of the struggle of the workers and peoples of europe and the world.
mr president, by advocating the detention of migrants and refugees, president tusk has embarrassed the european union, mirroring the 'urban' drift with which european leaders have been riding the insecurity of citizens in the face of the growing threats of unemployment, inequality and terrorism. we will not be effective in fighting terrorists if we continue to deny, to talk about foreign fighters, to pretend that they, the ones who have been beating us, are europeans. and to not recognize that austerity policies have only exacerbated the molenbeeks in which terrorist attacks are prepared, just as they have incapacitated the security agencies that should share information and do not share. and they have not even been strengthened enough in recent months to make reception hot spots operational and to speed up the registration and resettlement of asylum seekers, when there are member states, like mine, waiting to take them in. the refugees whom we have a legal and moral obligation to welcome and the migrants whom we have an economic and social interest in receiving in our ageing societies will only stop coming en masse and uncontrollably if the european union is committed to resolving the conflicts and fighting the terror from which they flee and from where they flee. the only way to really control who comes in the massive wave of refugees and migrants is to create safe and legal channels for the organized processing of their applications to enter europe. it is also the most effective way of profiting from human trafficking networks, but these channels have been ignored by our rulers. there is no reinforcement of controls that can lock every yard of the european union border. turning our backs on those who need protection is to destroy the european project, it is to play into the hands of traffickers and terrorists. it will neither stop the influx of refugees nor provide security for our citizens. europe is what we need most to share information and prevention against terrorism and to share the effort to welcome those who seek asylum.
mr president, the use of force against asylum seekers is a disgrace, as is the use of force against migrants in general. let's not use this discussion to select which human beings are or are not susceptible to being raped. the attacks and arrests in hungary, poland, bulgaria are appalling. people who crossed bulgaria by land report the use of dogs, night vision equipment and gunfire, as well as detentions and imprisonment in inhumane conditions for several days. but it is also hideous the way turkey, for example, has been forcibly pushing syrians into the syrian war zone after detaining them in isolated and secret places. turkey, who the european union wants to pay millions to take care of the refugees it rejects. in the aegean sea, vessels carrying migrants and refugees were violently attacked, allegedly by coast guard forces, with their engines stripped and their hulls pierced. who are these forces? member states or the european union?
in writing. the humanitarian refugee crisis has several dimensions. this debate has exposed a pattern which has been recurring in the various member states which are receiving this flow of refugees, namely the arbitrary detention and use of force, simply because one is an asylum seeker. the right to seek asylum is a human right enshrined in the geneva convention for refugees. therefore, detention should only be used as a last resort and within a limited period of time. the conditions for the detention of asylum seekers pending the examination of their application are described in the directive on the reception conditions for asylum seekers. it should be noted that unaccompanied minors may only be detained in exceptional circumstances and must be held in accommodation suited to their needs and separated from adults. therefore, if member states do not comply with these conditions, the european commission should initiate infringement proceedings against the member states concerned. in a humanitarian situation of this magnitude, member states and the competent authorities should be aware of the vulnerabilities and marks that these people carry with them. we must ensure that existing instruments are respected.
the balkans, with their national diversity and strategic position, have always been the target of imperialist greed. their real intentions have always been to divide the balkan peoples so that they can dominate them. it was in the dayton agreements of november 1995 that the kosovo question began to be prepared, under the auspices and pressure of the united states of america and also on its military base. these agreements enshrined the division of bosnia-herzegovina into three regions: croatian, serbian and muslim. the dayton accords didn't end one war, they started another. as early as 1998, it was understood that the united states government was preparing public opinion for an attack on yugoslavia from kosovo. whatever the yugoslav government did, nato would attack. unfortunately, the war against yugoslavia ended with a un security council resolution which sanctioned the occupation of kosovo by nato forces, in clear violation of its own charter which states, and i quote: 'that all member states shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state.' it was a sad story, but a story that was also the beginning of a new era, a roll of aggression in europe.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague, mr bodil valero, on this report which identifies the persistent problems in the arms export control regime in the european union, in particular in the implementation of the common position, and which lists solutions which the commission, the european external action service and the council should adopt. the union is responsible for more than a quarter of global arms exports and more than a third of the global arms trade to third countries and continues to have an extraordinarily opaque and corrupt defence sector, through the inaction or design of member state governments. it is urgent to set up an independent monitoring authority and a reporting mechanism and a standardised reporting for all member states with sanctions for infringements of the common position. it is essential that governments provide detailed accounts of exports, including quantities, values and destinations. it is the security of our citizens, our neighbourhood and the world that is at stake, as demonstrated by the recent terrorist attacks in paris, carried out with weapons and explosives produced and easily acquired here in europe. it is essential that the council and the commission ensure transparency in the defence sector, not tolerating explanations purporting to be of national security, so often invoked to protect private interests which serve neither our security nor our industry. in addition to stopping exports to regions and countries that are unstable and provoke conflict, member states may not transfer military or dual-use weapons or equipment to countries that could use them to repress civilians or divert and traffic them for illegal purposes, including by falling into the hands of terrorist groups. this is the case of saudi arabia, which has been mentioned several times here today. the exception to this rule is in the framework of the common security and defence policy, under the guidance of the high representative and as a result of coordination between member states in military support and assistance, such as that which should be given to the peshmerga in iraq and syria, if there were a european joint action to combat daesh, which unfortunately has not been. the european defence industry also has to correctly apply the 2009 directives on defence markets if it is to survive and be competitive globally, but as the valero report says, it cannot forget that it must serve europe's security, guarantee its strategic autonomy in military equipment and technology, including to ensure cybersecurity, the security of critical infrastructures and security in space.
mr president, what is at issue here is the privatization of biodiversity, the private appropriation of the genetic heritage of mankind, which has been built up over centuries of history by generations of farmers and breeders. this step, recently taken by the european patent office, is unquestionable. in this respect, the resolution is positive. it reinforces positions already taken by this house and is also in line with article 53 of the european patent convention. however, we must go further. we must ensure the full protection of native genes, preventing their own private appropriation which would be highly offensive to farmers and breeders who would be in the hands of the multinationals. we insist that the genetic heritage of mankind, biodiversity, should be a public good. we must create safeguards to prevent any private appropriation of this heritage. this heritage must be protected, valued and put at the service of humanity and development.
in writing. it is essential to safeguard the right of farmers to use and reproduce plant genetic material. this is on a scale sufficient to allow, without compromising quality, the continuation of traditional and ancestral practices such as seed exchange in horticulture and agriculture, which contribute to the preservation of the diversity of plant varieties, especially those with little commercial interest. we must ensure a regulatory framework that promotes this diversity because it is the resilience of ecosystems and ultimately the preservation of the natural landscape as we know it today that depends on it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, human rights violations in malaysia, as in many countries around the world, occur predominantly through a perverted justice system with unjust laws such as the sedition law. political power uses the courts to persecute its opponents and even eliminate them through aberrant death sentences. there are over a thousand citizens in malaysian prisons waiting for the state to kill them. there are two complementary means of combating human rights violations in malaysia and the world: economic sanctions, including the freezing of trade agreements with these countries, on the one hand, and strengthening the international criminal court on the other. it must be made clear that the violation of fundamental human rights does not and cannot compensate for the economic damage caused to those who violate them, who will also sooner or later have to answer to international criminal justice.
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament's decision to set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the scandal must be thoroughly investigated and the rules must be tightened up, bearing in mind that the automobile sector is a key sector of the european economy. i believe that it is the european commission's responsibility to ensure that community rules are respected as the guardian of the treaties.
the recent scandal involving volkswagen's tests of nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel engines has revealed a situation that is as regrettable as it is paradoxical. recent data indicate a difference of up to 500% between the emissions of nitrogen oxides measured under laboratory conditions and under normal road conditions. in other words, a vehicle within the current 80 mg/km standards may actually emit 400 mg/km. nitrous oxide is associated with asthma, neonatal malformations as well as premature death of 500,000 people a year. instead of forcing the automotive sector to comply with public health standards, the european commission has recently taken measures that in practice promote the continuation of non-compliance. they allow more than doubling (2.1) of the minimum value of 80 mg per kilometre by 2017 for new models and by 2019 for new vehicles. in a second phase, they will allow emissions above the standard by 50% by 2020 for new models and by 2021 for new vehicles. the question to be asked of the european commission is where public health has been weighed in this decision and on what studies it has been based.
in writing. ‒ we are facing a purely formal legal procedure with a view to concluding the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. this is a partnership and cooperation agreement. we do not normally object to such agreements, provided that the content of the agreements actually corresponds to the words that designate them partnership and cooperation. however, the agreement in question is part of the eu's strategy of making its foreign policy a part of its trade policy and is intended to enshrine in practice a free trade agreement, which we reject for various reasons, both because of our position in principle on the liberalization and deregulation of international trade and because of the impact that the agreement may have on national productive sectors which are already facing serious difficulties, such as the case of rice farming. in our final vote, these considerations as well as the highly technical and formal nature of the proposal in question will have a bearing.
in writing. ‒ this agreement translates into real economic gains for both parties. the eu could be an important partner in the economic development and peace of a country that has made efforts to implement respect for human rights and the fight against corruption.
‒ the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation establishes a fundamental partnership with regard to common interests and policies, providing essential cooperation between the eu and south-east asia. as such, the protocol under consideration here intends to incorporate the republic of croatia as one of the contracting parties to the agreement in order to take account of its accession to the european union. the european union is bound to provide the respective agreement in an authentic document in the croatian language. i am voting in favour of this recommendation, in favour of the conclusion of the protocol referred to.
in writing. ‒ given that the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, was signed in 2012 and that croatia's accession to the european union took place in 2013, the european council has decided to submit this protocol to the comprehensive framework agreement to the european parliament for approval in order to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. as this is a purely technical matter, i have obviously voted in favour of this recommendation for approval.
‒ these global partnership and cooperation agreements should aim to establish a modern, comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnership based on common interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. however, the reality and the very tone of the resolutions point in the opposite direction. the question of respect for human rights is just an ornament that is omitted when it comes to trade with israel, but which soon takes on an imperial tone of clear interference when we talk about countries which have legitimately chosen different paths of development. on the other hand, these agreements are based on the laws of free trade and supposedly fair and healthy competition which in practice ensures the dominance of large multinational companies, which end up devastating local economies, from which comes the reserve army that will provide the cheap and docile labour that capital so prizes.
‒ this is a purely legal procedure with a view to concluding the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam, to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. the agreement in question, which is a partnership and cooperation agreement to which we are not normally inclined to object, is part of the european union's strategy to translate its foreign policy into trade policy and is designed to enshrine a free trade agreement, which we reject. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ this agreement succeeds the previous cooperation agreements already concluded between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam. it is part of the eu's foreign policy and guidelines to engage politically and economically with countries and regional blocs in south east asia. the terms of this agreement set out in its text the way forward for the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the two parties, which will be a condition for bilateral relations between the member states, and which we reject. the agreement, which is also in the process of being prepared, is preceded by the present agreement, which refers to the facilitation of trade in plants and animals and their products, a situation which concerns us, particularly as regards the impact on the national rice field, since we know that vietnam is one of the three largest rice producers in the world. there are many areas where the agreement provides for cooperation. we look with attention and concern at the introduction of clauses aimed at promoting the alignment of vietnam's economic policies with those of the eu, through economic reforms and economic integration. in view of the scope and objectives of this agreement, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement translates into real economic gains for both parties. the eu could be an important partner in the economic development and peace of a country that has made efforts to implement respect for human rights and the fight against corruption.
‒ the present recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol on the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, seeks to approve the conclusion of the framework agreement by means of the consent given by the european parliament. the framework agreement addresses a number of issues, including european union policies on human rights, the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms and light weapons and the fight against terrorism, thus strengthening bilateral cooperation in important sectors such as health, the environment, energy and education. i am voting in favour of this act, since the framework agreement in question aims to provide a more effective link between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam in the field of various policies of common interest.
‒ with the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and vietnam in 2015, the partnership agreement is of enormous significance to both signatories. the eu is currently vietnam's largest export market and ratification of the partnership agreement should also take into account the implementation of economic and financial reforms that will help to boost vietnam's entry into the world economic framework. the country has already assured that it is willing to draw up a plan that is capable of implementing the recommendations of the universal periodic review of the united nations human rights council, also committing to continue its efforts in implementing the judicial reform until 2020. the eu should therefore continue to support vietnam in its economic development and promote good governance, the rule of law and the application of democratic principles. it seems to me therefore essential to support this agreement, which is intended not only to strengthen the strategic partnership between the eu and vietnam, following on from the 1995 framework cooperation agreement, but also to contribute to the development of a country which is on the path to sustainability by its own merits.
‒ these global partnership and cooperation agreements should aim to establish a modern, comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnership based on common interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. however, the reality and the very tone of the resolutions point in the opposite direction. the question of respect for human rights is just an ornament that is omitted when it comes to trade with israel, but which soon takes on an imperial tone of clear interference when we talk about countries which have legitimately chosen different paths of development. on the other hand, these agreements are based on the laws of free trade and supposedly fair and healthy competition which in practice ensures the dominance of large multinational companies, which end up devastating local economies, from which comes the reserve army that will provide the cheap and docile labour that capital so prizes.
‒ this agreement succeeds the previous cooperation agreements already concluded between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam and forms part of the eu's policy to influence south-east asia politically and economically. the current terms of the agreement set out in its text lay the groundwork for the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the two parties, which will be a condition for the bilateral relations between the member states, and which we reject. the agreement, which is also in the process of being drawn up, is preceded by the present one on the facilitation of trade in plants, animals and products derived from them, a situation which is of particular concern to us, particularly as regards the national rice field, since we know that vietnam is one of the three leading producers of rice in the world. there are many areas where the agreement provides for cooperation. we look with attention and concern at the introduction of clauses aimed at promoting the alignment of vietnam's economic policies with those of the eu, through economic reforms and economic integration. we voted against the scope and objectives of this agreement.
in writing. - in addressing the partnership and cooperation agreement to be concluded between the eu and vietnam, in a framework which anticipates the conclusion of a free trade agreement, this resolution unacceptably advances a set of recommendations and demands, in a position of shameless interference in the internal affairs of that country. we are faced with the well-known neo-colonial aspect of this project of capitalist european integration, of which the traditional criticisms of human rights, freedom and democracy are hypocritical expressions. in practice, the report supports the eu's vision of materializing its foreign policy in its trade policy, supporting the position of, by formulating pretended policies of cooperation, actually imposing fundamental changes in political regimes, which serve, first of all, the interests of the eu and the powers, as well as their economic and financial groups. the spirit of this is contrary to the principle, recognised in the report itself and in the agreement, that the relationship should be based on common interests and principles such as equality and mutual respect. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. the eu-vietnam framework cooperation agreement entered into force on 1 june 1986 and is of fundamental importance. the eu is vietnam's largest export market and the largest donor of official development assistance to the country. the eu must continue to be vigilant in the improvement of the situation of human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and media, access to information and freedom of religion.
‒ the report in question contains a non-legislative motion for a resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the european union and vietnam, which is a crucial partnership in terms of economic and financial benefits, common principles of equality, mutual respect, the rule of law, the promotion of human rights, migration and regional security, among other important issues. we are dealing here with essential strategic cooperation, since vietnam is a key partner of the eu in south-east asia and asean. further integration of vietnam into the world and european economy will be possible through ratification of the vietnamese partnership agreement, as the establishment of strictly defined objectives with the european union will allow for further development of the country in all areas. i support this report, stressing the importance of the european union encouraging and supporting vietnam's capacity for development in different areas, as well as in good governmental practice and important social issues.
‒ this is an agreement of major strategic importance. vietnam is a key partner of the eu in south east asia and asean. the agreement sets out the future relationship in a broader context with a view to further strengthening cooperation on global and regional challenges such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress, sustainable development, disarmament, weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism. it is an agreement that highlights the potential impact on job creation and poverty reduction, welcoming the economic and financial reforms undertaken by the vietnamese authorities to foster greater integration of vietnam into the world economy.
in writing. ‒ in june 2012, the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, was signed. this agreement, which the european parliament has given its consent to today, provides the necessary tools for a wider and deeper relationship between the eu and vietnam. with this non-legislative resolution on the global framework partnership agreement, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament wishes to underline that it will be very vigilant as the situation develops in a number of areas which we consider to be fundamental: beyond the eu's basic political clauses, in the context of the protection of human rights and the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism, for example, but also in sectoral cooperation in a wide range of policy areas such as migration, environmental protection and education.
‒ these global partnership and cooperation agreements should aim to establish a modern, comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnership based on common interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. however, the reality and the very tone of the resolutions point in the opposite direction. the question of respect for human rights is just an ornament that is omitted when it comes to trade with israel, but which soon takes on an imperial tone of clear interference when we talk about countries which have legitimately chosen different paths of development. on the other hand, these agreements are based on the laws of free trade and supposedly fair and healthy competition which in practice ensures the dominance of large multinational companies, which end up devastating local economies, from which comes the reserve army that will provide the cheap and docile labour that capital so prizes.
in writing. - in addressing the partnership and cooperation agreement to be concluded between the eu and vietnam, in a framework which anticipates the conclusion of a free trade agreement, this resolution unacceptably advances a set of recommendations, requests and demands, with a brazen character of interference in the internal affairs of that country. this is the usual neo-colonial line of this project of capitalist european integration, which focuses its offensive on the traditional criticisms of human rights, freedom and democracy. in practice, the report supports the european union's vision of materializing its foreign policy in its trade policy, supporting the position that, by formulating pretended policies of cooperation, they actually impose fundamental changes in political regimes, which serve first and foremost the interests of the eu and its major powers. the spirit of this is contrary to the principle, recognised in the report itself and in the agreement, that the relationship should be based on common interests and principles such as equality and mutual respect. we voted against it.
‒ the european commission, as part of phase 1 of the roadmap contained in the five presidents' report, published on 21 october 2015 a package containing measures to complete economic and monetary union (emu), consisting of two communications, a council recommendation, a proposal for a council decision and a commission decision. i share the european parliament's view that, although some steps have been taken in the right direction, further efforts are needed to address gaps in the euro area institutional framework, and i support the need for an interinstitutional agreement on european economic governance, including the european semester, with regular scrutiny by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ at the time of its creation, economic and monetary union (emu) was far from being a good monetary area. built without any economic support, on the backs of the people, this political project of the right and social democracy imposed on the workers and peoples neoliberalism as law, forcing the deepening of federalism. we have opposed the creation of emu from the outset. we have said that it would lead to divergence, increased exploitation, loss of income and of economic policy instruments, especially for countries like portugal, if a currency was adopted that was not suited to the productive structure. today the consequences are clear: very high levels of unemployment, stagnant and almost negative inflation rates, high levels of indebtedness, loss of external competitiveness, very weak growth rates. although it has been proved that emu was a wrong choice, they insist on its conclusion, once again without economic arguments and once again at the expense of the people. we do not accept make-up or "social washing" of an intrinsically anti-social project. you want more democracy? then let them consult the people and respect their will. are they really concerned about unemployment and increasing poverty? so put aside a project that institutionalizes neoliberal principles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of european economic and monetary union. the commission's proposals to strengthen economic and monetary union have been very important, but further efforts are still needed to address the current gaps in the institutional framework of the euro.
in writing. ‒ in emu and its economic governance, so-called austerity policies are permanent and not temporary, as they are embodied in rules that constitute a pool of forces for the sovereign decision of the member states and their peoples. we have opposed the creation of emu from the outset. today the consequences are clear: very high levels of unemployment, high levels of indebtedness, loss of external competitiveness, very weak growth rates. although it has been proved that emu was a wrong choice, they insist on its conclusion, again without economic arguments and again without listening to and consulting the people of each member state. as in the past, they impose more neoliberalism and more federalism, but now with the package of the social dimension and greater democracy. we don't take makeup. we have to go. you want more democracy? then consult the people and respect their will. are they really concerned about unemployment and increasing poverty? so put aside this project that institutionalizes neoliberal principles.
in writing. ‒ with emu, divergence between member states has deepened in favour of the stronger economies and tax avoidance and profit shifting have intensified. the concrete proposals for the creation of a european budgetary council and of national competitiveness councils - which we reject - composed of experts and intended to monitor the performance of budgetary executions and labour policies, only accentuate the undemocratic character of economic governance. we have put forward a set of proposals aimed at abolishing the economic governance structure, namely the european semester, the stability and growth pact and the budget treaty, and at renegotiating the debt, creating an emergency plan to support the economies affected by the troika, restoring economic and monetary sovereignty, strengthening the role of the public financial sector and subordinating economic power to democratic political power, thus ideologically and politically countering the proposals to deepen the neoliberal policies that underpin the process of capitalist integration that is the european union. unfortunately, they were not approved.
‒ every year, the european parliament assesses the situation in the world with regard to human rights and the rule of law. this report once again makes that diagnosis, correctly identifying the most worrying situations around the world. it also calls for human rights to be a cross-cutting policy, spanning the whole of foreign policy, and for the implementation of the 2015-2019 action plan for human rights. furthermore, the report also supports the european union's leading participation in relevant international fora such as the united nations, in particular by encouraging the application of existing international instruments. unfortunately, there are still many regions of the world where human rights are violated every year and where people live in unacceptable conditions. i therefore think it is essential that the european parliament should continue to make its defence in europe and the world a priority every year.
‒ the usual procession of arguments and assessments on the human rights situation in more than 130 countries, in the light of the european union's own view of human rights and democracy as both instrumental and restrictive, as if it were a champion of both, points out to others what it neglects behind closed doors. this is the usual recipe, which, in line with the eu's overall foreign policy vision and the use of its tools, serves no more than to promote interference in third countries in areas such as the 'rule of law', justice, governance and democracy, always pointing the finger of blame at some 'those who are not subservient and do not serve the interests of the eu and its powers' and forgetting others, promoters of gross and repeated violations of human rights, such as israel or the us. despite some observations, considerations and concerns that are reflected throughout the text and that we follow, overall we consider unacceptable the instrumentalisation of human rights and democracy in the service of the eu's hegemonic interests. we are looking at a monument to hypocrisy. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the union's policy on the matter. the reasons for my abstention in this important report are due to the disagreement over the way this very subject has been developed and described in the report.
‒ the protection of human rights and democracy are the basic principles of the european project. i therefore believe that the union and the member states must redouble their efforts to put human rights and democratic values at the heart of their external policies. democratic values such as freedom of expression, thought, conscience, religion and association and the rule of law are constantly threatened and called into question. as stated in this document, the union should swiftly implement the action plan for human rights and democracy 2015-2019 and ensure greater coherence between internal and external policies. the union must strengthen its action at multilateral level against the death penalty and ill-treatment, torture, discrimination, gender-based violence, and for the rights of children and women. i cannot fail to mention the most vulnerable groups, such as migrants and refugees, who show us the need for a real agenda. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the efforts made have borne fruit. however, i would like to make it clear that in my view there is still a long way to go, particularly in improving processes and procedures.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to propose to the council that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft report on human rights in the european union. this report goes in that direction.
‒ the eu should make use of the political tools at its disposal to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles as effectively as possible. this report aims precisely at greater effectiveness in the applicability of existing human rights resources and policies, calling for a capable implementation of the new eu action plan on human rights 2015-2019. in addition, the reference to the creation of channels of dialogue and national strategies on human rights or even more concrete guidelines capable of removing the shortcomings in this matter in third countries are some of the measures that this report suggests to be adopted and which i think are positive. strengthening the protection of human rights and the promotion of democracy should be promoted across all eu policies, especially those with an external dimension. the eu has a crucial role to play in international development cooperation and in the defence of human rights and the promotion of democracy, so it is essential to strengthen the effectiveness and applicability of existing instruments in this field, and this is the main reason why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the european union claims the right to give lessons in democracy and human rights to the rest of the world, as this debate once again shows, while at the same time trampling on democracy and human rights at home. the universal declaration of human rights lists rights and principles aimed at ensuring respect for life and human dignity, including, inter alia, freedom, the rights of expression, opinion and religion and participation in the life of communities, equality at birth regardless of social class and race, equality before the law and justice, the right of everyone to access to health, education, social security, employment and a reasonable wage to ensure all families a life in dignity, clothing, adequate housing and food, equal pay for equivalent work, including equality between the sexes, and the right to privacy, advocating the elimination of all forms of discrimination. the impoverishment of democracy is always linked to the non-fulfilment of some fundamental human rights. we feel it today as never before in the eu. it is the defence of these rights - won and now threatened - that is the heartbeat of the struggle of the workers and peoples of europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ the balkans, with its national diversity and strategic position, have always been the target of imperialist greed the real intentions of the soviet union have always been to divide the balkan peoples so that it can dominate them. it was in the dayton agreements of november 1995 that the kosovo question began to be prepared under the auspices and pressure of the united states, and on its military base. these agreements enshrined the division of bosnia-herzegovina into three regions: croatian, serbian and muslim. the dayton accords did not end one war, they opened others. as early as 1998, it was understood that the us government was preparing public opinion for an attack on yugoslavia from kosovo. whatever the yugoslav government did, nato would attack. unfortunately, the war against yugoslavia ended with a un security council resolution that enshrined the occupation of kosovo by nato forces, in clear violation of its own charter, which states that 'all member states shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state'. a sad story that has been repeated. and that this resolution did not want to address.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. a conflict that has claimed 100,000 lives and been marked by the worst atrocities, such as large-scale ethnic cleansing campaigns, genocide and countless war crimes. after 20 years, it is good to remember that there are still tens of thousands of internally displaced people and thousands of refugees in bosnia and herzegovina. the dayton peace accords allowed the war to end and the post-war rehabilitation and reconstruction to begin. bosnia and herzegovina is now a country that aspires to join the eu.
‒ the dayton peace agreement put an end to the biggest conflict in europe since the second world war, in bosnia and herzegovina, which resulted in the deaths of thousands of people, the displacement of millions of individuals and the worst atrocities. the celebration of the 20th anniversary is intended to provide an incentive for the necessary political reforms, mainly considering bosnia and herzegovina's future application for membership of the european union. despite all the results already achieved, as a country aspiring to membership of the european union, full implementation of the agreement is needed to ensure the return of internally displaced persons and refugees affected by the conflict. there are a number of issues to be resolved, with regard to socioeconomic needs and political reforms, and the establishment of an effective coordination mechanism for european union-related issues is essential. i am voting in favour of this act, considering that there are still deficiencies in the functional structure of the country which must be addressed by effectively implementing the dayton peace agreement with a view to achieving a functional and autonomous state free from the ravages of war.
in writing. ‒ in the dayton agreements of november 1995, the kosovo question began to be prepared under the auspices and pressure of the usa, and on its own military base. these agreements enshrined the division of bosnia-herzegovina into three regions: croatian, serbian and muslim. the dayton accords did not end one war, they opened others. as early as 1998, it was understood that the us government was preparing public opinion for an attack on yugoslavia from kosovo. whatever the yugoslav government did, nato would attack. unfortunately, the war against yugoslavia ended with a un security council resolution that enshrined the occupation of kosovo by nato forces, in clear violation of its own charter, which states that 'all member states shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state'. a sad story that has been repeated.
in the dayton agreements of november 1995, the kosovo question began to be prepared under the auspices and pressure of the united states, and on its military base. these agreements enshrined the division of bosnia-herzegovina into three regions: croatian, serbian and muslim. the dayton accords did not end one war, they opened others. as early as 1998, it was understood that the us government was preparing public opinion for an attack on yugoslavia from kosovo. whatever the yugoslav government did, nato would attack. unfortunately, the war against yugoslavia ended with a un security council resolution that enshrined the occupation of kosovo by nato forces, in clear violation of its own charter, which states that 'all member states shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state'. a sad story that has been repeated. the distortion and revision of history which this resolution represents, by glorifying the agreements in question, led us to vote against it.
‒ this report addresses the issue of arms exports from member states to third countries. in general, the report expresses concerns and positions which, if correct, do little to change the current situation. we could say that this report is in line with the interests of the european arms industry, an industry which exports annually the equivalent of several tens of billions of euros, accounting for more than a third of all arms exports worldwide, a fact which has obvious implications for the instability currently experienced in regions such as the middle east and north africa, fuelling authoritarian regimes and armed groups. these are the consequences of the european union's foreign policy, which the report conveys and promotes, by aligning arms export policy with the common security and defence policy, a position which we reject. more than enough reasons for our vote against.
in writing. ‒ with the threat of terrorism in europe, there has been a call for stricter controls on the sale of arms. common position 2008/994/cfsp constitutes a legally binding framework setting out criteria for the export of military equipment to be applied by eu member states in their decisions on the granting of licences. i do, however, believe that there should be a more in-depth debate on the matter at hand, which merits some caution, which is why i have decided to abstain.
‒ the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation establishes a fundamental partnership with regard to common interests and policies, providing essential cooperation between the eu and south-east asia. as such, the protocol under consideration here intends to incorporate the republic of croatia as one of the contracting parties to the agreement in order to take account of its accession to the european union. the european union is bound to provide the respective agreement in an authentic document in the croatian language. i am voting in favour of this recommendation, in favour of the conclusion of the protocol referred to.
‒ there is a need to adopt effective arms export control regimes, condemning the use of arms to fuel insecurity and armed conflict, both internally and externally, and to support internal repression, regional conflicts or serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is regrettable that the illicit arms trade continues to be a lucrative and large-scale business. eu member states are major global arms exporters, with exports worth €36.7 billion in 2013, of which €10.735 billion was traded between member states and €25.976 billion was destined for third countries. i am seriously concerned about the consequences for the security and defence of the eu of the transfer of sensitive knowledge and technology to third countries, which also represents an increased risk of dependence on third countries with divergent strategic interests, such as russia.
‒ greater cooperation at european level on the global arms trade requires a strengthening of the common position, as referred to in the report, which, while quite important, should not forget the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. harmonisation at eu level should not be used as a pretext to dissolve stricter national rules. i therefore stress in this report the calls for greater transparency and scrutiny in arms exports to third countries, the call for a truly effective implementation of embargo policies, the importance of combating illicit trade and the need for greater coordination between member states, eurojust and europol with third countries. i also welcome the work of the european commission to modernise legislation on export controls on dual-use goods. unfortunately, i cannot agree with the report's proposals on the frequency of reporting obligations on the part of member states, which i consider, as does my political group, to be an unnecessary administrative burden and an unnecessary excess of bureaucracy that does not serve the best interests of combating illicit arms trafficking. for these reasons i abstained from voting on this report.
‒ the uncontrolled spread of weapons poses a serious risk to peace and security in the world. every minute, a person dies in gun violence around the world, and in the same time span, 15 new weapons are manufactured. in the period 2010-2014, eu member states accounted for 25,4% of the main conventional weapons distributed worldwide. it is regrettable that the developments of the last two years have shown that weapons sometimes end up in the hands of terrorists or repressive regimes, or countries where children can be recruited or used in conflicts, or regimes that have dubious relations with international terrorism or have an aggressive domestic and foreign policy. so instead of crying crocodile tears, we need to adopt effective arms export control regimes and stop the use of weapons to fuel insecurity and armed conflict in countries such as libya, syria, iraq and afghanistan, among others.
‒ the report addresses the issue of arms exports from member states to third countries. in general, it takes on concerns and positions which, if correct, are not detached from reality. it is in line with the european arms industry, an industry that exports several tens of billions of euros annually, and is the source of 36% of arms exports to third countries - a situation that has obvious implications for the instability currently experienced in the middle east and north africa, fuelling authoritarian regimes and extremist movements. these are the consequences of the european union's foreign policy, which the report conveys and promotes, by aligning arms export policy with the common security and defence policy, a position which we reject. i am not saying that the european union should be a party to the arms embargo, but that it should be a party to the arms embargo. we voted against it.
‒ this oral question relates to the possibility of patenting plant characteristics, including when these are developed, improved or obtained by means of biological breeding and improvement techniques. it follows the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office, which is directly against the exception to patent law which safeguards producers with regard to biological breeding techniques and extends the power of patents. although we share the concerns underlying the question, we believe that it is not enough to ask for clarification of directive 98/44/ec, but that it needs to be revised and updated, not in order to protect european competitiveness, or unrestricted access to biological material only for the innovation sector, but mainly so that there are no interpretations that go against the rights of producers and people to produce and improve plant species with biological and traditional techniques, not limiting access to food production for some, which can even put food security and access to food at risk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on patents and plant variety rights. products obtained from essentially biological processes, such as seeds and plants, should be excluded from patentability. selective breeding is an innovative process practiced by farmers and farming communities since the earliest days of agriculture, with non-patented varieties and breeding methods important for genetic diversity.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the granting of a community patent for a product obtained from essentially biological processes. a decision taken within the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office (epo) could lead to an increase in the number of patents granted by the epo in respect of natural features introduced into new varieties, mainly using biological processes such as crossing and selection. in this context, there is a need to clarify the scope of directive 98/44/ec, which regulates biotechnological inventions, in particular genetic engineering, with particular attention to article 4 thereof, in order to ensure legal clarity and to define which types of products may or may not be patented. i am voting in favour of this proposal, since patent law should be harmonised and its implications for biotechnology and genetic engineering should be considered in the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution because it reflects in a fairly balanced way the concerns of this parliament regarding the patentability of essentially biological processes in relation to selective breeding of plants in the case of non-patented varieties. it is therefore necessary that the commission clarifies the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes and that the principle of 'excluding the patentability of essentially biological processes from multilateral discussions on the harmonisation of patent law' be applied. as recalled by paragraph 6 of the adopted joint resolution, we are still awaiting the report 'on the development and implications of patent law in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering, as required by article 16 (c) of directive 98/44/ec, and as requested by parliament in its resolution of 10 may 2012 on the granting of patents relating to essential biological processes'.
‒ it is essential to safeguard the right of farmers to use and reproduce plant genetic material. this is on a scale sufficient to allow, without compromising quality, the continuation of traditional and ancestral practices such as seed exchange in horticulture and agriculture, which contribute to the preservation of the diversity of plant varieties, especially those with little commercial interest. we must ensure a regulatory framework that promotes this diversity, because it is the resilience of ecosystems and ultimately the preservation of the natural landscape as we know it today that depends on it.
‒ this resolution relates to the possibility of patenting plant traits, including when they are developed, improved or obtained through biological plant breeding techniques, and follows the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office, which goes directly against the exception to patent law that safeguards producers with regard to biological breeding techniques and extends the power of patents. although we support the question, we believe that it is not enough to ask for clarification of directive 98/44/ec, but that it will need to be revised and updated, not in order to protect unrestricted access to biological material, but in order to avoid misinterpretations that go against the rights of producers and people to produce and improve plant species with biological and traditional techniques. the major multinational seed companies, such as monsanto, dupont and syngenta, are already concentrating rights on the seeds most important for human food, with all the consequences for producers and consumers. soon, and there is no break with this model, it will be these companies that determine what should be grown and at what price.
‒ this oral question concerns the possibility of patenting plant characteristics, including when they are developed, improved or obtained by means of biological plant breeding techniques, which follows the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office, which is directly contrary to the exception to patent law which safeguards producers with regard to biological breeding techniques and extends the power of patents. although we follow the content of the question, we think that it is not enough to ask for clarification of directive 98/44/ec, but that it will be necessary to revise and update it, so that there are no interpretations that go against the rights of producers and people to produce and improve plant species with biological and traditional techniques.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken a number of measures to help the palestinians, including the establishment of a permanent settlement in the occupied territories. the deplorable text presented does everything to assert a unilateral vision of a democratically elected regime with strong popular support, and which has asserted a vision of the development of the country that does not serve the interests of capital. it omits that the 'fighters for democracy', which it feeds via the eu's democracy mechanisms, are a relevant part of the conflicts that are occurring there, promoting aggression and murder and spreading fear among the population. it distorts events promoted by these movements, attributing them to government forces movements associated with terrorism and trafficking, which serve the interests of the eu, which has in the great lakes fertile soil and attractive for the exploitation of minerals by european industry. an unacceptable text, imbued with hatred and with intentions of interference, about a sovereign country and a sovereign government. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in burundi. the political and security situation in burundi is very worrying and the eu must do everything in its power to reverse this situation, including in terms of financial support and humanitarian aid to the neighbouring countries which have been hosting refugees from burundi. the government of burundi must immediately disarm all armed groups.
in writing. ‒ the political and security situation in burundi has been deteriorating, and with it we are witnessing the rapid deterioration of the humanitarian situation and stability in the entire sub-region. we condemn the recent violent attacks and the increase in cases of violations and abuses of human rights, including killings, extrajudicial executions, attacks on the physical integrity of persons, acts of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, arbitrary arrests and unlawful detentions, and violations of freedom of the press and of expression. it is time for the european union to act in accordance with the values it stands for and to put an end to the prevalence of impunity.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced his candidacy for a third term, in flagrant violation of burundi's constitution and plunging the country into a deep political crisis since the end of the civil war. in the meantime, the government of the drc has continued to exercise its right to impose sanctions on the drc. since then, burundi has been facing an unprecedented and serious political, humanitarian and security crisis, with a tragic toll of over 200 dead and an estimated 200,000 refugees. this motion for a resolution, to which i am a signatory, insists on the need to put an end to the wave of political violence and intimidation and urges the government of burundi to respect its obligations to guarantee fundamental rights in all international and regional human rights instruments. finally, i would like to welcome the mediation efforts undertaken by the international community and the financial support provided by the european union to deal with the current humanitarian crisis.
‒ between 2013 and 2014, burundi dropped from 178th to 180th in the undp human development index. today, four out of five people in burundi live on less than $1.25 a day, and 66.9 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. the situation in burundi is worrying and could have disastrous consequences for the whole region. the current crisis can only be resolved through political dialogue at national and regional level and should in no case be used as a pretext for further military intervention in the region. in this sense, we expect the eu to maintain development aid and to refrain from any imperial conditionality, which will only contribute to reigniting conflicts rather than resolving them.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken a number of measures to help the palestinians, including the establishment of a permanent settlement in the occupied territories. the deplorable text presented does everything to assert a unilateral vision of a democratically elected regime with strong popular support, and which has asserted a vision of the development of the country that does not serve the interests of capital. it omits that the 'fighters for democracy', which it feeds via the eu's democracy mechanisms, are a relevant part of the conflicts that are occurring there, promoting aggression and murder, spreading fear among the population. it distorts events promoted by these movements, attributing them to government forces movements associated with terrorism and trafficking, which serve the interests of the eu, which has in the great lakes fertile soil and attractive for the exploitation of minerals by european industry. an unacceptable text, imbued with hatred and with intentions of interference, about a sovereign country and a sovereign government. we voted against it.
‒ virunga national park (pnv) was designated a unesco world heritage site in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994, and is the most biodiverse park on the african continent. for decades it has been under threat from armed groups that practice poaching, deforestation and other forms of illegal and unsustainable resource exploitation, which have financed armed conflicts in the region. in 2007, the threat to the pnv increased with the award of oil concessions, covering 85% of the park. allegations are known that soco international and its contractors have made illicit payments, provided financial support to armed rebels and taken advantage of the fear and violence fomented to facilitate their access to the pnv for oil exploration purposes. we are faced with yet another painful demonstration of the nature of capitalism. the objectives of profit and economic domination justify corruption, conflict, violence and the exploitation of the vulnerability of the least developed countries and the poverty of their peoples. although condemning soco for the exploration and exploitation activities of the pnv and asking the latter to publicly commit to cancel them permanently, the resolution is much tougher on the congolese government than on the british multinational.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. virunga national park is the oldest national park in africa and is classified as a unesco world heritage site. the park has unique habitats and is very rich in biodiversity. the famous mountain gorillas, a critically endangered species, live here. the eu should do all it can to continue to support the government of the democratic republic of congo in providing the country with energy and economic alternatives to extractive industries, in combating poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining and corruption.
‒ irreversible damage to virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo, which was designated a unesco world heritage site in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994, must be prevented. this park is being transformed into one of the most dangerous places in the world for wildlife conservation. armed groups have been involved in the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the park through mining and coal production activities to support their military operations and for personal profit. large-scale poaching for food and to finance warfare through the ivory and wildlife trade is common.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which warns of the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the virunga national park. i recall that this park was the first protected area created in africa (classified as a unesco world heritage site in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994), being one of the two strongholds of the mountain gorilla and the protected area with the greatest biological diversity on the african continent. this resolution emphasizes the near-emergency situation of the preservation of biodiversity in this region, pointing out that such damage may be the result of oil exploration and exploitation and other illegal activities. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to coordinate diplomatic action with the democratic republic of congo (drc) to ensure that it abandons prospecting and oil exploration within the park and at other unesco world heritage sites. it is equally important that the eu supports the drc government in developing energy and economically sustainable alternatives to extractive industries and in combating corruption, poaching and illegal logging.
‒ two thirds of the world's known oil reserves are in the middle east. but dependence in this area is strategically unacceptable, according to the imperial powers. thus, major multinational oil companies are clearly involved in the search for new oil reserves. in 2010, the congolese government signed contracts for oil exploration in areas covering 85% of the area of the virunga national park, despite the law of the democratic republic of congo banning any exploration in this park, which is considered a world heritage site by unesco. this park is now threatened, in particular by the concessions given to the multinationals total and soco, among others. in respect of the sovereignty of all the countries involved, and in particular of the democratic republic of the congo, it is our duty to seek to ensure that policies for the exploitation of resources are in the service of local populations and not in the service of the accumulation of profits by multinational companies, which do not look for means to corrupt governments or destabilise entire regions to achieve their aims.
‒ virunga national park (pnv) is the oldest national park in africa. classified as a unesco world heritage site in 1979 and as a world heritage site in danger in 1994, it is the park with the greatest biodiversity on the african continent. for decades, the pnv has been under threat from armed groups. in 2007, the danger threat to the pnv increased with the award of oil concessions by the drc government, covering 85% of the park, despite existing legislation prohibiting the practice of environmentally harmful activities in protected areas. however, the exploration licence granted to soco international plc benefits from an exception provided for by law, which allows 'scientific' activities to be carried out in protected areas. a global witness report published in september 2014 stated that there are allegations that soco and its contractors have made illicit payments. the situation in the pnv is yet another painful demonstration of the inhuman, exploitative and aggressive character of the capitalist system. although condemning soco for the pnv's exploration and exploitation activities and calling for the pnv to publicly commit to canceling them permanently, the resolution is much tougher on the drc government than on the uk-based company. we abstained.
